
Mycelial Design Patterns
for Web3 and Beyond
Exploring MycoFi: Mycelial Design Patterns for Web3 and Beyond guides readers on
an underground exploration into the world wise web of mycelial networks, the most
prolifi c producers of public goods on Earth. This book examines how the evolutionary
adaptability of fungi could help us imagine biomimetic alternatives to status-quo
economic systems that demand infi nite growth on a fi nite planet.
If there is any hope for a transition away from extraction, domination, and planetary
overshoot, towards regeneration, equity, and planetary healing, our economies must
be realigned with nature’s ecologies - and for that, we can’t a! ord to ignore what
mushrooms have to teach us. If we aim to design regenerative economies, what better
place to start than with the thriving evolutionary patterns of nature?
MycoFi translates six design patterns of mycelial ecologies to Web3 economies:
Network Infrastructure • Fractal Nature • Emergent Coordination
Dynamic Flow • Mutual Reciprocity • Polycentric Pluralism
“Fungi invite us to participate in a commons-based economy where resources are metabolized,
shared, and regenerated simultaneously through the very same process. MycoFi is less about how
to imitate them than how to join in the dance.“
Douglas Rushko! , author and host of Team Human
“Nature is a magical long-term, stable code base, with time for revisions and optimization. More
recently, our attention spans have gotten shorter and we’ve forgotten how to listen deeply and pay
attention to the truth around us. Hopefully, this work will provide another reminder that the answers
have always been there. Let’s listen together.”
Amber Case, author of Calm Technology
“Mycelial networks are the foundation from which natural systems thrive. Obligation networks are
the foundation from which social systems thrive. MycoFi is a beautiful recognition of the confl uence
of the natural and social worlds, of our mutual interdependence, of our obligations to take care of
the planet and each other, and of how much more we still have to learn from the humble mushroom.”
Ethan Buchman, co-founder of Cosmos and CEO of Informal Systems
E X P L O R I N G
MYCOFI

2
3
E X P L O R I N G M Y C O F I
4
Written by Jeff Emmett & Jessica Zartler
Foreword by Scott Morris
5
E x p l o r i n g M y c o F i
A MYC OPUNK PUBLICATION
FROM THE GREENPILL NETWORK
Mycelial Design Patterns
for Web3 and Beyond
6
Coordination by Owocki
Design by Laura Helen Winn
Illustration by Biux
PRODUCED FOR THE GITCOIN ECOSYSTEM
Exploring MycoFi: Mycelial Design Patterns for Web3 and Beyond is licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0.
To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
7

8
9
CONTENTS
12
16
20
24
26
34
44
52
60
68
74
80
82
A Note from the Creators
Foreword
Uncovering Nature’s Economic Blueprints
Mycelial Design Patterns
Design Pattern 1: Network Infrastructure
Design Pattern 2: Fractal Nature
Design Pattern 3: Emergent Coordination
Design Pattern 4: Dynamic Flow
Design Pattern 5: Mutual Reciprocity
Design Pattern 6: Polycentric Pluralism
Join the Mycelial Revolution
Gratitude & Acknowledgments
Appendix
10
“MycoFi beautifully illustrates and underscores that mycelium’s design is borne from the universe.
The organization of mycelium is a previously proven evolutionarily successful structure at scales
found throughout nature. Its inherent wisdom of sharing resources, building guilds - and thus -
communities is an economic and cosmological model for us to depend upon and learn from. From
these mycelial-like structures, we have a launching pad for our continued evolution based on
cooperation, resilience, and discovery. The very nature of mycelium allows it to evolve and not only
respond to catastrophia but to build systems that are highly adaptive and ever-lasting. By learning
from mycelium, our species can achieve the next quantum level in our evolution.”
Paul Stamets, renowned mycologist and author of Mycelium Running
“Metaphor is a powerful tool for the imagination, giving us the sca!olding to create new structures
in our minds. This book lays out a powerful mycelial metaphor to help us reimagine our financial and
economic life.”
Brett Scott, author of CloudMoney and Altered States of Monetary Consciousness
“This is economics on mushrooms. The fungi kingdom is the banner bearer for regeneration. This
book invites us to observe the patterns of deep fungal regeneration as we endeavor to redesign our
economic relationships with mutuality, collaboration and regeneration in mind.“
Greg Landua, co-founder and CEO of Regen Network
“So glad to see how Mutualist thinking and design are being located from the roots to the emergent
horizons. We can be neither pessimists nor optimists - rather be those who toil in the matter at hand
committed to that which repairs the world.”
Sara Horowitz, author of Mutualism: Building the Next Economy from the Ground Up
“This book takes you on a journey to explore nature’s public goods infrastructure,
and what we can learn for building the socio-technical systems of the future.
Maybe we’ll find out we’ve been Mycopunks all along!”
Angela Kreitenweis, founder of Token Engineering Academy
11
“MycoFi helps us move beyond the representational thinking hindering crypto by drawing on
the lessons we can learn from the ancient economic mycelial networks that have run nature for
millennia. Mushrooms show us that we are and always have been the inter-connected parts of one
organism that must create symbiotic ways of co-existence with ourselves and the rest of the natural
world to continue surviving on a planet wrought with man-made degeneration.”
Josh Davila, author of Blockchain Radicals: How Capitalism Ruined Crypto and How to Fix It
“This book (and the community it emerges from) is a fun and playful way into the tools and
mindsets of this practice, recommended especially if you are, perhaps, coming to see yourself as
a confluencer, sovereignty guardian, rhizome of diplomatic gardens, steward for Mother Earth and
all her children; giver of care, compassion, and integrities; practitioner of trust, choreographer of
commoning; or caller of ancient, renewed and emergent memes.”
Tony (OpenTony) Lai, researcher & editor, Stanford Journal of Blockchain Law & Policy
“Great intro to how Web3 networks and other human-made systems can benefit from
biomimicry and system thinking.”
Shermin Voshmgir, author of Token Economy
“MycoFi takes the reader below the surface of Web3 to explore diverse and intricate economic
networks. Ecological Economics (generally) and mycelial networks (specifically) share a pluralistic
view on value. The same nutrient can be both a waste product when and where it’s in excess, and
a resource when and where it’s necessary for a biochemical process. Moving away from a single
notion of value (money) and towards nutrients flowing over physically distributed and biologically
diverse networks is a key conceptual shift from neoclassical to ecological economics.”
Michael Zargham, Chief Engineer at BlockScience
12
A N o t e f r o m
the Creators
13
This book is a creative excursion into the nexus between
mushrooms, economics, and technology. It explores six mycelial
design patterns and their potential applications to address
modern challenges in political economics, using Web3 tools as
emancipatory technologies.
Many of the ideas expressed in this book were inspired by
countless authors, researchers, and developers, drawing from
extensive bodies of research on the fascinating capabilities of
mycelium and distributed ledger technologies. This book presents
a fungal remix of some of those concepts, oriented toward a
Web3 audience. For those interested in further reading, you can
fi nd a series of links and references in the appendix.
While we take an optimistic outlook in these pages, we aim to
avoid the ì appeal to natureî fallacy ≠ the oversimplifi ed perspective
that everything natural is good for us. Instead, we seek to identify
and unpack useful, pro≠ social patterns that could be applied in
contexts where they increase collective fl ourishing.
MycoFi is fundamentally a pluralistic and emergent meme,
requiring many voices to interweave a polyphonic chorus ≠
including those who came before, as well as those yet to come. If
you feel the call to contribute to the growing folklore of mycelial
solutions, we have included information on connecting with
communities of change≠ makers in the last chapter. We o! er this
book as one step to an ecology of mind nurtured in the world of
mycelial intelligence and all it has to teach us. There is so much
more to be written, experienced, and embodied, and we warmly
invite you to join in the exploration.
14
15
16
Foreword
17
As someone who has been involved in designing and implementing alternative
economic systems since 2009, I have developed a special appreciation for ideas
and frameworks that accelerate the process of learning how to think in more holistic,
integrative, nature≠ aligned terms, especially as applied to designing systems for sharing
resources intentionally. My earliest work was in community currencies, which have
served humanity for ages by doing like the mushrooms do: helping meet local needs
with local resources and strengthening communities in times of crisis. In other words,
providing #RealValue.
For those curious, the term ì MycoFiî fi rst emerged at an event on Collaborative
Finance, aka ì CoFiî in May 2023. Je! and I were coming up with ideas for session
proposals for the participant≠ led portions of the agenda when the term emerged as a
suggestion based on my combined appreciation for Je! í s legendary love of all things
mycelial and the way it juxtaposed the themes of collaborative fi nancial networks and
mycelial networks.
This book is simultaneously a light≠ hearted, fun introduction to mycelial networks
and some of their genuinely surprising capabilities, and a serious invitation to draw
inspiration from them as we design the resource coordination networks of the future. In
a space that so often seems easily distracted by the shiny, new, and fi nancially lucrative,
ití s all the more important that we keep a path devoted to the work of designing
systems that address the survival≠ scale challenges we face as a species.
I believe MycoFi is a timely idea because it presents us with a way of thinking about
purpose≠ based networks and political economic systems which are more rooted in
community. I see it as a biomimetic pattern language that helps us gain a better sense
of how to rewire the circuitry of our economies so they serve the needs of humanity, the
biosphere, and all stakeholders for mutual benefi t with the long≠ term in mind. If thatí s
your jam, youí re holding the right book.
Hydrate, meditate, take the green pill, and may the Force be with you always.
Scott Morris
@TheTokenJedi


20
introduction
U n c o v e r i n g
N a t u r e í s E c o n o m i c
Blueprints
21
Designing from Fungal Foundations
In our search for regenerative economic design patterns, the answers
we seek may be hidden right beneath our feet. Over billions of years
of evolution, mushrooms - and the underground mycelial networks to
which they belong - have been iterating design patterns for distributed,
autonomous infrastructures used for intelligent resource distribution
and collective signaling between countless living organisms worldwide.
Decades of study into the interaction patterns of mycelial networks
in natural ecologies have o! ered us a glimpse into a cooperative
underground world where resources fl ow dynamically between fl ora,
fauna, and funga to generate thriving ecosystems.1 If Web3 technology
holds the potential to craft new economic paradigms, mycelial design
patterns may just show us the way back to a more ecological future.
Mycelium as Nature’s
Public Goods Infrastructure
As one of the oldest and largest organisms alive, mycelium is a grand
architect of nature. Fungi were among the planet’s earliest multicellular
lifeforms, and along with their algae symbiotes, they terraformed planet
Earth from a ball of cooled magma into the green paradise we know
today.2 Mycelia form underground in a structure of networked tubes, which
provide the “pipes” for a large proportion of nutrient distribution within and
between most plants worldwide. From the earliest days of life on Earth,
fungi have been breaking rock and networking through the soil, building
a vast and interconnected mesh across the face of the planet. Like most
well-operating public goods infrastructure, they remain underground and
almost entirely invisible, even as they serve as a keystone network of
species sustaining life on Earth.
22
Mushrooms Leak So Much Alpha
Adaptively evolving to shifting climates, food sources, and ecological epochs,
mushrooms not only provide essential services for all life on Earth through their
distributed infrastructure, but they have demonstrated an evolutionarily honed
capability for collective coherence and intelligent resource allocation in genetically
diverse collectives. They transact resources using market-like exchange mechanisms
with trading partners, address free rider problems in permissionless networks, and
take advantage of arbitrage opportunities in the remediation of damaged ecosystems.
They display strategies of mutual reciprocity with their trading partners, even keeping
stumps and other non-producing members of the forest alive in what is essentially an
underground economic support network. If nature has any alpha to guide us toward a
fl ourishing future, perhaps the mushrooms will let us in on the drop.
MycoFi is Economic Biomimicry
With their pivotal role in the fl ow of nutrients in natural ecosystems, mycelial networks
are the physical
medium on
which nature’s
economies
run. These
organisms o! er
us a conceptual
bridge between
economies and
ecologies - two
realms that we
must reconnect
to have any
chance of
surviving on this
planet for the long term.
MycoFi is a movement to consciously apply lessons from the mycelial world to
cryptoeconomics, and encourage Web3 builders to “think like a mushroom” about
the systems they are designing. Incorporating nature’s evolutionary design patterns
into our economies could alleviate much of the disharmony we see between
human economies and nature’s ecologies, gesturing towards a future of economic
permaculture.3 This is also the basic premise of ecological economics4 - that we
must move away from singular notions of value and orient our economies to refl ect
the interdependent coevolution of multiple forms of value fl ows, just as we see in
nature. In that sense, this book can be considered a beginner’s guide to ecological
economics, seen through the eyes of fungi.
MycoFi
ReFi
DeFi
CoFi
23
MycoFi’s Memetic Lineage
Memes play an important role in guiding the shape of forthcoming ideas and
technology. From Decentralized Finance (DeFi) to Regenerative Finance (ReFi)
to Collaborative Finance (CoFi), MycoFi builds on a rich lineage of memetic
concepts and open-source tooling.
DeFi Decentralized Finance envisions a world beyond the rigid ine& ciencies
and monoculture of centralized fi nance, for people to “become their
own banks” and start anew in the infi nite gardens of Ethereum and other
blockchains. DeFi saw the rise of tools like Aave, Balancer, Curve Finance,
and Uniswap, where many degen fortunes were made and lost.
Regenerative Finance is a call to use the newfound power of DeFi towards
all forms of planetary regeneration, a song of redemption to transmute
DeFi degens into ReFi regens. This movement aims to use the magic of
token issuance to solve for public goods funding and realign incentives
toward positive-sum outcomes. ReFi was led by mystical collectives
like Regen Network, ReFiDAO, ReFi Spring, Optimism, Gitcoin, and the
GreenPill Network, among many others.
ReFi
Collaborative Finance seeks to complement the existing, centralized
economic models by proposing systems of mutual obligation clearing,
where networked debts cancel each other out in a harmonious cycle.
CoFi found resonance in the hearts of those dreaming of a world woven
together without an unhealthy addiction to fi nance. The meme fi rst
emerged in the Cosmos ecosystem, appealing to complementary currency
activists and crypto commoners already practicing similar tactics.
CoFi
It is from these memetic mycelial threads that MycoFi is woven. The
concept of mycelial fi nance beckons us to learn from the ancient wisdom
of nature, interlacing economic design patterns with the rhythm of life
forms that have adaptively co-evolved over billions of years on this planet.
Like spores on the wind, MycoFi fi rst emerged as a playful jest to tickle the
CoFi vines but quickly sprouted into its own vibrant memetic tapestry of
inspiration for regenerative economic design.
MycoFi
24
Mycelial Design Patterns
If we were to ask this ancient, sentient network its secrets, perhaps it would whisper
to us of design patterns it has iterated in the depths of deep time, patterns such as:
Network Infrastructure
“We are the mycelial networks, the ancient weavers of nature’s
oldest decentralized web. Our threads stretch across the world,
silently sharing resources with all, creating life’s sustaining mesh.”
Fractal Nature
“In us, the fractal patterns of the cosmos are echoed. With minimal
energy, we replicate these universal designs of self-similarity, from
the smallest seashell to the vastest galaxy.”
Adaptive Sense and Response
“At the edge of the known, we, the mycelium, innovate without
requiring permission from our ancient roots. Here we thrive, at the
frontier, adapting to the mysteries of life.”
Dynamic Flow
“Our network pulses with life, a never-ending flow of resources.
Like a symphony, nourishment courses through us, shared freely,
never still, never hoarded.”
Mutual Reciprocity
“In our world, a delicate balance of give-and-take prevails. We the
funga, alongside flora and fauna, partake in a life-sustaining dance,
each exchange nurturing the reciprocal cycle of existence.”
Polycentric Pluralism
“Within us thrives diversity, a celebration of life’s myriad of forms.
Responsive and varied, each part of our network contributes its
unique voice to the chorus of nature.”
25
This book will cover each of these patterns in turn, fi rst from a mycelial
mindset to understand how mushrooms demonstrate them, then looking at
a few myco-mimetic examples of that pattern at work in the Web3 space,
and ending with some imaginative provocations of what a more fungal
future could look like in Web3 and beyond.
MOLOCH ON MUSHROOMS
Moloch is the god of coordination failures.
Mushrooms are the epitome of coordination in nature.
What would happen to Moloch on mushrooms?
26
design pattern one
N e t w o r k
Infrastructure
27
Natureís Oldest Networks
When it comes to network infrastructure, mushrooms have no equal. Mycelium is
natureí s oldest and most
interconnected network,
one that supports the
entirety of life on Earth
through the resources
and information that
fl ow through its veins.
As infrastructures of
positive≠ sum reciprocity
and regeneration tested
by untold millennia of
natural selection, their
patterns are a true gift
from our eldest genetic ancestors.
Networking in the Wood≠ Wide≠ Web
Although mushrooms are often all we see aboveground, fungi are complex entities
of underground
networks, which
grow toadstools
much like apple
trees grow apples.
 Mycelium grows
underground by
extending thread≠
like fi laments called
hyphae into the soil,
which interconnect
with other hyphae
and network into
a mycelial mesh.
These connections form with more than 90 percent of trees and plants worldwide,
leading biologists to lovingly dub these mycelial networks the ì wood≠ wide≠ webî . In
the language of complex systems and graph theory, the trees are the ì nodesî in this
network, and mycelial connections are the ì edgesî in between them.
the mycelial mindset
28
In the realm of natural adaptability,
fungi are in a league of their own. They
can eat plastic, oil spills, and cigarette
butts, and they thrive in environments
as diverse as underwater realms,
scorching heat, and even outer space.
Remarkably, fungi have even been found
fl ourishing in hostile environments such
as fuel tanks and even radioactive zones
like Chernobyl. Radiotrophic mushrooms
have evolved the astonishing capability
to use radioactivity as a power source!
FUN-GAL FACTS
MycoFi is the Economy of the Forest
Hyphae are composed of long chains of individual cells, making them like tiny pipes
routed all over the planet’s surface. These pipes are not just a communication network
for the mycelium itself but are also essential for the redistribution of resources from
decomposing matter to a host of other lifeforms where they provide life-sustaining
nutrition. Mycelial networks have an uncanny ability to sense demand for particular
resources across their many interconnections, and intelligently route the supply of
nutrients to where they are needed most.
29
Blockchains are Coordinative Infrastructures
Bitcoin has been referred to as a mycelial organism.5 Indeed, one of the core value
propositions of blockchain technology is based on the use of distributed network
architectures to serve as coordination
substrates for new forms of organizing.
This o! ers us a unique opportunity to
rethink many of the power asymmetries
we see in legacy systems, some of
which were the inspiration for blockchain
technology in the fi rst place. Every time
technology has opened a path toward
new coordinative infrastructures ≠ from
the printing press to the telegraph, to
the internet ≠ the world has experienced
massive shifts in geopolitical structure. Distributed ledger technology holds the same
potential for paradigmatic and socio≠ evolutionary shifts.6
DAOs as Digital Fungi
Mammals are more closely related to
fungi than to any other kingdom of life.
A key di! erence is that while mammals
internalize digestion by putting food
into their bodies, mycelia externalize
it by putting their bodies into the food,
breaking down and consuming the
environment around them. Some of the
nutrients are absorbed and transported
throughout the mycelial network to
other organisms, while other nutrients
are left to enrich the soil, enabling
new life to form and thrive. When a
mushroom feasts, it is a communal
banquet ≠ a public good for the whole ecology.
In contrast to ì mammalianî private corporations that enclose resources and
intellectual property within the ì boundaries of the fi rmî , decentralized autonomous
organizations (DAOs) could be considered the mycelia of the digital world; they
network amongst themselves and expand into emergent collaborations
to build shared value through open≠ source tooling and an ethos of
permissionless participation.
myco≠mimicry in web3 Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
30
imagining
fungal
futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
31
Economic Resilience via Mesh Stability
Imagine a future where community economies based on localized production are
connected in a vibrant tapestry of interwoven currencies. While a single mycelial
thread can be broken with ease, when woven together into a pluralistic mesh, they
have vastly greater strength and collective stability. This network infrastructure
of economic solidarity helps mitigate the community impacts of fi nancially-driven
boom and bust cycles that are so common in the global economy. It also increases
community resilience against other unpredictable shocks like pandemics or climate
disasters, which are all the more likely in an age of geopolitical uncertainty.
These interconnected economic networks reduce fi nancial risks for creatives and
entrepreneurs, for example by giving them access to a! ordable credit from their
community mutual credit systems. Re-localized supply chains prioritize the basic
needs of the many over the luxuries of the few, with MycoFi economic mechanisms
programmed to ensure that fi nance remains in service to the production of real value,
rather than the other way around.
32
33
34
design pattern two
Fractal Nature
35
A Universal Constant of Self≠ Similarity
If we look across the universe, from the tiniest cells to the most massive stellar
bodies, there is one pattern that remains constant ≠ fractals. We can see their
unfolding symmetry in the designs of
nature when we compare the branching
of mycelial hyphae with the branching of
neurons in the brain, or when we observe
the unfurling pattern of fi ddlehead ferns or Romanesco broccofl ower. Fractals display
self≠ similar shapes that can be seen when moving between scales. When you look
closer and closer at a fractal, you see a replica of the whole within it.
the mycelial mindset
36
Nature’s Automation Algorithms
The elegance of nature’s designs is
due to their fractal nature - an encoded
pattern that produces emergent
complexity through the repetition of a
simple pattern. Design-wise, this enables
a highly e& cient replication process that
allows simple processes to unfold into
emergent outcomes - nature’s ultimate
automation algorithm. In the mycelial
lifecycle, spores branch into hyphae,
which themselves branch into networks
of greater and greater interconnections
- a process that results in not only
a highly functioning coordinative
infrastructure but a beautiful complexity
that evolves of its own accord.7
T R A N S C E N D I N G T H E
I L L U S I ON OF S E PA R AT I ON
The separation between the self and the collective may be a blurrier boundary than
we once thought.8 After all, what is an individual but the culmination of smaller pieces
working together as an intelligence greater than the sum of its parts? Are each of
our voices not a chorus themselves, speaking for the collective interest of the billions
of cells - human, bacterial, fungal - that comprise our “self” in the fi rst place?
When we examine mycelial networks in nature, we see the same relational magic
between the part and the whole at work. Is a thriving fungal ecosystem a plethora
of genetic individuals fi tting specifi c niches and needs in a collective, or is it one
entity connected through a nervous system of distributed mycelia? Can it be both?
Mushrooms invite us to see beyond the divide between the individual and
the collective, to become part of a symphony greater than ourselves.
37
Symbiogenesis as a Fractal Scaling Strategy
Symbiogenesis speaks of a prehistoric merger wherein the earliest multicellular fungal organisms absorbed a single-celled bacteria into itself, o! ering
protection in exchange for energy production. Over billions of years of
specialization, this endosymbiotic merger resulted in the standard arrangement
of most living things, whose cells are powered by internal mitochondria. This
evolutionary upgrade revolutionized the capacity for cells to serve as stable
building blocks for the emergence of higher orders of complexity over many
scales - with cells composing into tissues, tissues into organs, and organs into
lifeforms that even acquire a consciousness of their own. Symbiogenesis set
into motion a chain of fractal evolution, starting from a single cell and resulting in
the explosion of complex lifeforms on Earth.
38
Smart Contracts & Nested NFTs
Some blockchain primitives like smart contracts and non≠ fungible tokens
(NFTs) express similar properties to fungií s fractal potential. Smart contracts
are encoded to be self≠ executing and permissionless network connectors,
enabling more rapid and automated resource exchange. They can be
deployed at di! erent layers in an ecosystem of institutional ecologies, and
even at various scales ≠ within or between individuals, DAOs, or even DAOs
of DAOs. The composable nature of these contracts can also support
automating operational or repetitive tasks, allowing humans to focus on
higher≠ order system governance. NFTs can be programmed to own or house
other NFTs with rule sets that enable conditional triggers when certain criteria
are met. These fractal assemblages can be applied to countless use cases,
from tokenizing natural assets to establishing identity and reputation within
and between digital communities.
myco≠mimicry in web3 Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
39
DAOs All the Way Down
DAOs are another example of fractal possibility in Web3. The same institutional
ecologies of governance and economic patterns deployed via smart contracts
could be applied on many levels: to DAOs themselves, to workstreams within
DAOs functioning as sub-DAOs, or even to groups of DAOs that coordinate as
meta-DAOs. Nesting DAOs as functional sub-units allows for skill specialization
among members and o! ers economies of scale in coordinating resources toward
collective outcomes. The fractal nature of sub-DAOs can increase autonomy9
among members to more e& ciently explore new areas of innovation and value
fl ow, which feed back to the larger institutional ecology.
40
imagining
 fungal
 futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
41
Endosymbiotic Finance
Imagine a future where the economic power of an organization comes from
its own internalized energy, rather than having to rely on outside sources of
extractive fi nance. In the same way that cells absorbed the power-generating
capabilities of mitochondria, MycoFi proposes endosymbiotic fi nance as the
process by which organizations internalize the capacity to produce and store
their own economic power, rather than having to submit to the high costs of
external fi nance provided by banks. This capability for endogenous credit
issuance enables organizations to have tighter feedback loops between their
evolving needs for capital and their ability to issue vouchers backed by their
own productive capacity. This process of organizational symbiogenesis will see
DAOs and other myco-organizations continue to “absorb” the useful functions
of fi nance, steadily reducing the power asymmetries that have allowed external
fi nance to become the proverbial “tail that wags the dog” of the real economy.
Endosymbiotic Finance
Imagine a future where the economic power of an organization comes from
its own internalized energy, rather than having to rely on outside sources of
extractive fi nance. In the same way that cells absorbed the power-generating
capabilities of mitochondria, MycoFi proposes endosymbiotic fi nance as the
process by which organizations internalize the capacity to produce and store
their own economic power, rather than having to submit to the high costs of
external fi nance provided by banks. This capability for endogenous credit
issuance enables organizations to have tighter feedback loops between their
evolving needs for capital and their ability to issue vouchers backed by their
own productive capacity. This process of organizational symbiogenesis will see
DAOs and other myco-organizations continue to “absorb” the useful functions
of fi nance, steadily reducing the power asymmetries that have allowed external
fi nance to become the proverbial “tail that wags the dog” of the real economy.
42
43
44
design pattern three
Emergent
Coordination
45
Edge≠ based Intelligence
The nature of fungal networks gives them an incredible capacity for adaptive
sense and response to stimuli within their environment. This gives them a knack for
emergent coordination
in fi nding food or
defending against
disease ≠ even cancer.
Rather than making
decisions with a
brain at the ì centerî
of the organism
and propagating
coordination signals
to the ì edgesî of
the network ≠ as you
might expect in a
hierarchical organization
≠ mushrooms show us
how advantageous it can be to process information from the edges of the network,
where new opportunities and threats
are most likely to arise.
Wisdom of the Crowd
Hyphae are constantly exploring
their environment without waiting for
direction from some central authority.
Every branch of a mycelial network is
fully empowered to search for food
in any direction, merging with other
hyphae along the way. The resulting
mesh then doubles down on e! ective
pathways while pruning those less
promising, leading to the emergent
growth of a network that is intimately
adapted to transporting resources
through its environment.
the mycelial mindset
46
Quadratic Funding
The Gitcoin Grants13 platform leverages edge≠ based
intelligence to distribute a large pool of matching funds
via Quadratic Funding.14 The Grants protocol elicits the
ì wisdom of the crowdî via individual donations to donorí s
favorite projects, donations which are then quadratically
matched from a central donor pool. With hundreds of
thousands of ì sensorsî (donors), the Grants protocol not
only takes in signals from the edges of the network to
assess worthy projects, but it
also quadratically amplifi es that signal with matching funds from sponsor
organizations ≠ the broader the support, the bigger the match.
The Grants platform has empowered emergent coordination around the creation
of essential tooling and infrastructure on multiple blockchains and continues
to expand its funding capacity by supporting grant rounds hosted by diverse
communities and token ecosystems.
Quorum Sensing and Collective Coherence
Fungi have also been studied for their incredible capacity for ì quorum sensingî , a
tactic for coordinating behavior using various biological and environmental cues.10
Given their structure as a distributed network of cellular threads, determining where
one individual begins and ends is no easy feat. Despite this lack of a decision≠ making
ì centerî , mycelia are capable of collectively deciding upon and achieving goals with
remarkable creativity and ingenuity. They have even demonstrated the ability to store
memory, such as the geographic location of past food sources.11 Their capacity to
store information improves their capability for emergent coordination.
myco≠mimicry in web3
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
47
T H E M O L DY P ROF E S S OR
Slime molds, once classifi ed as fungi
because of their similar characteristics,
are so e! ective at decision-making
that they have even been granted
honorary positions at post-secondary
institutions, where they have weighed
in on the design and validation of rail
networks and other policy decisions.12
Neural Quorum Governance
In collaborations between Stellar Development Foundation15
and BlockScience16, Neural Quorum Governance (NQG)17 is
proposed as a composable new method for balancing the
specialized knowledge of experts while maintaining broad
democratic input. NQG works like a delegated democratic
system, but instead of only
delegating to one representative,
you can designate an anonymized
“quorum” of members to vote collectively on your behalf.
The quorum members can even be weighted in a “neuron”
according to their expertise, past voting history, reputation,
or other available parameters. This kind of tooling o! ers
a richer democratic space for the network to source
contextually appropriate knowledge and weigh it proportionally in policy decisions,
resulting in better emergent decision-making on behalf of the organization.
48
imagining
fungal
futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
49
Adaptive, Breathing Myco-Organizations
Imagine a future where DAOs have evolved to become emergent mycoorganizations, capable of collectively adapting to changes in their environment
through the real-time consensus of their constituents. Total Value Flowed has
replaced Total Value Locked as a key metric of ecosystemic health. Their dynamic
issuance18 token economies breathe with life, expanding and contracting in supply
to accommodate the emergent demand for the real value they produce. This not
only allows these myco-organizations to expand their capacity to fund emergent
collaborations, but it also allows them to contract safely and predictably, unlike the
zombifi ed institutions under late-stage capitalism that can only grow forever until
they collapse unpredictably.
50
51
52
design pattern four
Dynamic Flow
53
Natureís Greatest Arbitrageurs
Contrary to the wealth≠ hoarding that is characteristic of fi at economies, mycelial
economies are all about fl ow. All natural ecologies involve fl ows of resources from one
form or location into another, whether they are streams of energy, water, nutrients, or
biomass. Fungi induce many of these fl ows by acting as natureí s arbitrageurs, using
their extensive networks of hyphal pipes as intelligent distribution infrastructure to
move resources from where they are abundant to where they are in higher demand19 ≠
a conductor of natureí s symphony of resources.
Flows of the Forest
Though it may appear still on the surface, a forest ecosystem is alive with fl ows.
Fungi play a vital role in supporting the health of these ecosystems by continuously
exchanging nutrients from the soil with sugars photosynthesized by trees and then
distributing those resources throughout their many branches. Along with the fl ow of
nutrients that can provide life≠ saving sustenance for neighboring trees or plants that
are not able to produce for themselves, plants also pass messages and warnings
between one another, increasing the collective immunity of the forest against threats
and other environmental factors.20
the mycelial mindset
54
CLIMATE CHAMP-IGNONS
Mushrooms aren’t all fl ow - they are also one of the largest sources of carbon
sequestration on the planet! Mushrooms assimilate carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere into their hyphae, moving it deep below ground where they lock it
into the soil. A recent study estimates that more than 13 billion metric tons of
CO2 from terrestrial plants are passed on to underground mycelial networks
each year, equivalent to about 36 percent of global fossil fuel emissions!21
55
Dynamic Issuance & Fund Streaming Protocols
Like mycelial networks, some Web3 builders have realized
the importance of the dynamic issuance and real≠ time
circulation of resources in productive ecosystems.
Protocols like Inverter Network22 and Radicle Drips23 o!er
the capability to create programmable fl ows of resources
within and between Web3≠ enabled
organizations, like the polycentric
circulatory systems of nutrients in
an ecology.
These could be used as fund streaming tools to
pay DAO contributors based on outcomes, split
royalties among creators, or support subscription
memberships for open≠ source dependencies. Flow≠
based networks o!er the capability to keep up with real≠ time demand for
services, and dynamic issuance o!ers the adaptive capacity for a token
economy to respond with a proportional shift in available supply to match.
Conviction Voting
Flowing resources is one thing, but fl owing the governance of those
resources is a new realm of exploration
recently opened up by blockchain
technology. Conviction Voting24 (CV) is a
dynamic governance primitive developed
in collaboration between Commons
Stack,25 BlockScience, 1Hive,26 and the
Token Engineering
Commons.27 It
aggregates the real≠
time preference signals of a group of individuals into
a measure of collective ì convictionî towards group
priorities, similar to the way neurons power up and
fi re to form the distributed intelligence of the brain.
CV can be used to rank community preferences,
distribute funding, or even to dynamically weight the
delegation of voting power in DAOs.
myco≠mimicry in web3 Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
56
imagining
fungal
futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
57
Vote Streaming in Fluid Democracy
Imagine a future where we could give regular input and feedback to our collective
governance processes, and it had a direct and proportional impact on policy-making
and resource allocation. Instead of voting once every four years, in a fl uid democracy,
we vote in real-time on issues that are important to us - or we delegate our clout
to people we trust, and then re-delegate if and when those people break our trust.
Di! erent policies can pass at varying speeds and the rate of fl ow or “viscosity” of
collective decision-making is now a tunable parameter. Unlocking the dynamic fl ow of
governance over shared resources could level up our societal institutions to enable
them to collectively adapt and address the myriad challenges they face.
58
59
60
design pattern five
Mutual Reciprocity
61
The Relational Exchange of Fungal Finance
Many traditions and indigenous ways of knowing have long recognized that all good
things in nature are rooted in reciprocity and relationship. Ongoing research into
mycelial relationships with trees and plants suggests that an evolutionary strategy of
mutual reciprocity can build stronger, more trusting exchange partnerships.28
Mycorrhizal Solidarity Networks
One of the most mutually benefi cial fungi is the mycorrhizal variety, which
interconnects with the underground rhizomes of plants. Mycorrhizal relationships
are the epitome of solidarity networks in forest ecosystems, not only displaying
reciprocity in the exchange of messages and warnings, but also in feeding stumps
of trees that can no longer photosynthesize for themselves, allowing them to live on
for decades. Mycelium acts like an extended nervous system of the forest, such that
trees can even recognize and communicate with kin via their hyphal roots. These
networks also enhance disease resistance in forest ecosystems and encourage
collective adaptation to threats, increasing their overall systemic resilience.29
Weaving Kingdoms into Partnership
Myceliumí s web of mutual support with other organisms is pivotal in natural
ecosystems. Roughly three≠ quarters of a plantí s roots are actually mycelial
tendrils, greatly extending the reach and surface area of roots to absorb
nutrients. Many trees have even evolved to leave space within their roots for the
mycorrhizal hyphae to grow into ≠ a display of mutually benefi cial relationships
between di! erent kingdoms of life.
the mycelial mindset
62
Learning from Mycelial Market Makers
Ongoing research shows that fungi have evolved methods to identify and eliminate
free riders from their resource distribution networks and double down on mutually
benefi cial trade partnerships. They also dynamically adjust their exchange rates for
the resources they trade with trees, based on their relative scarcity in one location
over another.30 These mycelial market makers are a fascinating glimpse of resource
exchange in nature that could hold many important lessons for us.
Indigenous Economics31 is a fi eld of economic study that explores the
resource management practices, theories, and philosophies of indigenous
peoples around the globe and throughout history. It builds on the communal
values of multigenerational thinking, ecological sustainability, and our
intricate connection with the environment. This approach recognizes the
importance of maintaining the interconnection and relations between all
living things - an economy beyond tokens of value and quantifi cation.
AN HOMAGE TO INDIGENOUS ECONOMICS
The Hiawatha Belt of the Haudenosaunee Nation - since fashioned into a flag -
carries deep meaning and significance. The wampum belt also functioned as a ledger
recording the founding of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, when five warring
nations buried their weapons of war to live in peace.32
Given that animals branched o! from fungi in the evolutionary tree of life,
mushrooms are one of our closest genetic ancestors, and thus also a part
of our indigenous heritage. As with many other topics in this book, there
is much more to explore on the deep wisdom of Indigenous Economics.
Our intention in bringing this up here is to show gratitude and respect
to indigenous peoples and elders for stewarding this wisdom.
MycoFi sees Indigenous Economics and asks: how can we re-root
economics in the health and wealth of our planet and all living beings?
63
Collaborative Finance (CoFi)
CoFi33 is a relatively new meme in the Web3 space,
but it is based on practices that have been around
for decades. CoFi focuses on creating greater
economic e& ciency by clearing debts within
a network through a harmonious cycle where
participantsí obligations cancel each other out
without a single token changing hands. This kind
of liquidity≠ saving mechanism paired with mutual
credit clearing could save businesses as much as
50 percent of their need for cash to settle those
same debts, representing signifi cant savings in terms of operating costs,
especially in high interest≠ rate environments.34
Giveth GIVbacks
The GIVeconomy aims to reward, empower, and encourage altruism and
those who donate to causes on the Giveth platform.35 This hard≠ codes
reciprocity into an on≠ chain economic model, much like the network strategies
employed by our mycelial kin. The Giveth Galaxy
builders have been iterating on a giving economy
where those who donate to purpose≠ driven projects
get $GIV tokens in exchange. Giveth participants
can also stake their tokens for charity and earn in
kind, creating an ecosystem of collective support,
abundance, and pro≠ social value creation.
myco≠mimicry in web3 Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
64
imagining
fungal
futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
65
Institutionalized Generosity Networks
Imagine a future where mutual reciprocity can be encoded into the basic
economic interaction patterns between us all. Where peer-to-peer mutual credit
lines interconnect everyone on the planet, and generosity is institutionalized
through networks of mutual aid and pay-it-forward universal basic income (UBI).
In this age of material abundance, no one is left wanting food, water, or shelter
due to a lack of access to an artifi cially scarce fi nancial unit. Networks of trust
lines between us and our communities are public infrastructure that make access
to money no di! erent than access to water or electricity - you just draw what you
need from the network, and pay for what you use. Just like the mycelial solidarity
network of the forest, in the MycoFi future, our economic systems ensure that
everyone’s basic needs are met by default.
66
67
68
design pattern six
P o l y c e n t r i c
Pluralism
69
Diversity Breeds Resilience
Fungal wisdom and evolutionary biology point to diversity and plurality as a key
pattern for survival. The mycelial capacity for diversity is beautifully expressed in
the jaw≠ dropping 20,000+ distinct genders some mushrooms have evolved for
reproduction.36 Genetically unique fungi are densely interconnected with each other
and innumerable plants, overlapping and melting into diverse polycentric collectives.
They are also capable of impressive localized specialization, with cells being able to
spin up unique alchemical capabilities such as defense centers that produce penicillin
or other enzymes to battle hostile bacteria in the soil. This makes fungi one of the
most resilient lifeforms on the planet.
Myco≠ Economic Permaculture
The mycorrhizal networksí display of
economic permaculture holds up a useful
mirror to compare with our anthropocentric
fi at economies. State≠ enforced currency
monocultures crowd out other forms of peer≠
to≠ peer exchange and impose a system of
artifi cial scarcity, which leads to a situation
where the private fi nancial system can extract
heavy tolls from our inability to transact
with each other. In reality, it is the invisible
economy, rooted in diversity, generosity,
and abundance ≠ the networks of mutual
aid, obligations, IOUs, credits, favors, and the largely invisible labor of caregivers
(predominantly women37) ≠ that truly makes the world go round.
Supporting Diverse, Thriving Ecosystems
Forest ecologies contain overlapping layers of interdependent processes carried
out by innumerable di! erent species of plants and animals ≠ the very defi nition of
polycentrism. Underlying every thriving ecosystem are the mycorrhizal networks
≠ luckily, mushrooms never put all of their resources in one hyphal basket. The
fungi kingdomí s ability to express and exchange di! erent forms of value ensures
the dynamic cyclicality of resources being distributed as needed through these
ecosystems. True champions of pluralism and diversity, they remind us to maintain
heterogeneity and expressivity in our systems ≠ not just to survive, but to fl ourish!
the mycelial mindset
70
NATURE ’S MOST PROLIFIC AIRDROP
Many mushrooms reproduce using spores, tiny packets of genetic
information that fl oat through the air like nature’s everlasting airdrop.
Spores can be launched into the air with the same force as rocketships,
where they ride the winds to great heights and even play a crucial role
in cloud formation, a! ecting weather and rainfall patterns worldwide.38
71
Radical xChangeís Plural Voting
Pluralism has been a rallying cry among the Radical xChange39 community, where
Plural Voting40 (also called Quadratic Voting, or QV) was recently popularized. QV
is a voting method that allows voters to express the intensity of their preferences
in collective decisions, which can greatly mitigate tyranny≠ of≠ the≠ majority and
factional control problems in traditional voting systems. Plural Voting o! ers an
important step into alternative voting systems that could increase the plurality of
decision≠ making in society.
Community Currencies & Asset Vouchers
Economic pluralism is on full display in the innovative work of Grassroots
Economics41 and Circles Coop42. Grassroots Economics is a non≠ profi t foundation
working with marginalized communities on Community Asset Vouchers (CAVs).
CAVs allow communities to issue vouchers backed by their own production,
and to use those to enable greater exchange of goods and services in the local
economy. Similarly, Circles UBI allows communities to issue credit amongst each
other, in order to enable exchange in the absence of fi at currency. These systems
enable communities to incubate locally≠ led projects and businesses with reduced
dependency on scarce national currency and greater resilience against market
volatility, innovating on decades of work in complementary currency systems.
myco≠mimicry in web3 Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
72
imagining
fungal
futures
Created by Floret
from the Noun Project
73
Collective Flourishing by Expanding Expressivity
Imagine a future where local currencies, as multidimensional expressions of value,
can be braided together in synergistic meta-economies. A multitude of locallycentered yet globally connected ecosystems, whose members transact in sovereign
economic solidarity. These currencies are designed to align value with values, such
that the culmination of economic interactions manifests the outcomes we want to
see in the world. Diverse forms of value are expressed through a plurality of options
for exchange, breaking through the imposed scarcity of economic monoculture like
mushrooms fruiting through asphalt. MycoFi shows us how we might deconstruct the
constraints of the past, and embrace the permaculture economic future.
74
J o i n t h e
Mycelial Revolution
75
Composting Capitalism
Some say mushrooms are “having a moment”, with interest growing in fungi due to
the advances they o! er in life-saving medicines, bioremediation, materials sciences,
permaculture design, and so much more.44 But that’s only the tip of the toadstool! The
reality is that mushrooms are facilitating a movement, one that is capable of changing
the face of entire planets - a continuous revolution they have been instigating since
the dawn of multicellular life on Earth. MycoFi o! ers us the opportunity to leverage
fungi’s transformative power to compost the decaying monolith that is late-stage
capitalism, decomposing what no longer serves us and transmuting it into new life.45
A Blueprint for Healthier Economics
In these mycelial design patterns, we fi nd not just a blueprint for healthier economics,
but a call to join in the dance of evolution; to a melody played on the strings of
the universe itself. Rather than “exiting” our legacy systems and increasing our
segregation and isolation, MycoFi suggests that we root deeper into our communities
to fi nd reconnection and common cause in a mutually abundant future. Much like
the mushrooms that appear after forest fi res to rehabilitate torched landscapes,
MycoFi shows us how we might come together to heal the economic trauma that has
been visited upon our damaged societal ecosystems. Mushrooms invite us to chart
new paths around the limitations of monoculture currencies, inspiring us to dream in
altered states of monetary consciousness.46
76
Underground Networking Strategy
The fungal strategy is so successful in part because fungi tunnel underground,
gathering strength and sharing resources safely out of sight of predators. When
the time is right, mushrooms perform another of their impressive miracles.
Leveraging hydraulic force and producing powerful digestive enzymes on the
tip of the fruiting bodies, mushrooms can push forward with surprising speed
through seemingly insurmountable barriers, even fruiting straight through
asphalt in a single night. There is a Potawatomi word for the force with which
mushrooms exert when they fruit: Puhpowee!47
The Puhpowee is Yours!
Now it’s your turn. As our mycelial exploration draws to a close, we hope the
ideas expressed in this book stick with you like spores of inspiration. Perhaps
some of those spores will take root, branch into hyphal tendrils of curiosity, and
even mushroom into some form of creative expression, spreading spores of their
own through the stories you tell, the actions you take, or the tools you #buidl.
Each of us has a part to play in our collective future, and mushrooms show us
that together, we have great strength to a! ect change.
77
Root into your body, and feel the coherence of the billions
of microscopic organisms that comprise you. Root into your
community, and dream of new ways we can merge our voices
in collective wisdom. Root into the land, and tread lightly on this
precious planet, for she is our great mother and our only home.
78
Let’s Get Rooted, Mycopunk
Solarpunk? Lunarpunk? Meet Mycopunk! This liminal aesthetic dissolves
and integrates dualism and dichotomy into its pluralist mesh, welcoming
regenerative radicals and changemakers of all stripes. If taking part in
the mycelial revolution sounds like your vibe, consider this: one does not
simply become a Mycopunk. One can only come to realize one was a
Mycopunk all along.
linktr.ee/MycoFi
Join the community and contribute your two spores:
79
80
81
Gratitude & Acknowledgments
This book would not have been possible without the spread of ideas
through a vibrant and interconnected network of changemakers and
research colleagues who are too numerous to name, but who have all left
their mark on the words in this book.
A special thank you for edits contributed by Scott Morris, Exeunt, Tamara
Helenius, OpenTony, Matthew Slater, Cart Reed, and Tineasha Emmett.
We are also grateful to the Crypto Commons and CoFi communities for
the generative spaces they hold that inspire so much creativity.
We extend our deepest gratitude to the researchers and authors like
Paul Stamets, Suzanne Simard, and Merlin Sheldrake who motivated
the authors’ journeys into the fi eld of mycology. Also for the unending
inspiration from Michael Zargham and the multidisciplinary team at
BlockScience, whose research continually explores the edges of the
known. We would also like to thank all of the projects that were mentioned
in this book, including all those we didn’t have space to name! There is
so much more that could be said about each of these projects and the
ecosystems they are evolving in. We’ve included links in the appendix
below so you can continue on deeper explorations.
Thanks to the Lichenpunks for eroding the solid rock of the status quo
into fertile soil for imaginative exploration, and to the Mycopunks who
emerged to manifest a world of fungal solutions to the challenges of
the Anthropocene. And of course, to the mushrooms…without whose
regenerative wisdom we might not even exist!
82
APPENDIX
References to sources cited within the text of this book can be
found below. A digital version of these references can also be
found at bit.ly/mycofi-appendix, or via this QR code:
1. Mycelium Running, Paul Stamets: https://fungi.com/products/mycelium-running
2. Entangled Life, Merlin Sheldrake: https://www.merlinsheldrake.com/entangled-life
3. From Monoculture to Permaculture Currencies: A Glimpse of the Myco-Economic Future, Je! Emmett:
https://allthingsdecent.substack.com/p/mycoeconomics-and-permaculture-currencies
4. Toward an Ecological Monetary Theory, Joe Ament: https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/11/3/923
5. Bitcoin is a Decentralized Organism (Mycelium), Brandon Quittem: https://medium.com/@
BrandonQuittem/bitcoin-is-a-decentralized-organism-mycelium-part-1-3-6ec58cdcfaa6
6. The Dawn of the Regenaissance, Jessica Zartler: https://jessicazartler.medium.
com/the-dawn-of-the-regenaissance-a3be40da5331
7. Hyphal and Mycelial consciousness: the Concept of the Fungal Mind, Nicholas
P. Money: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33766303/
8. The Computational Boundary of a “Self”: Developmental Bioelectricity Drives Multicellularity and ScaleFree Cognition, Michael Levin: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.02688/full
9. Disambiguating Autonomy: Ceding Control in Favor of Coordination, Michael
Zargham et al: https://blog.block.science/disambiguating-autonomy/
10. Quorum Sensing: its Role in Microbial Social Networking, Angkita Sharma et al: https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923250820300577
11. Physarum on the faculty: https://www.hampshire.edu/academics/faculty/physarum-mold
12. Ecological Memory and Relocation Decisions in Fungal Mycelial Networks, Yu
Fukasawa, et al: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41396-019-0536-3
13. Gitcoin Grants: https://grants.gitcoin.co/
14. Quadratic Funding: https://www.wtfisqf.com/
15. Stellar Development Foundation: https://stellar.org/foundation
16. BlockScience: https://block.science/
17. Introducing Neural Quorum Governance, Danilo Bernardineli and Jakob Hackel:
https://blog.block.science/introducing-neural-quorum-governance/
18. Exploring Bonding Curves: Di!erentiating Primary and Secondary Automated Market Makers, Je! Emmett et al: https://
mirror.xyz/0x8fF6Fe58b468B1F18d2C54e2B0870b4e847C730d/1Pxl_fbIPifIQ4_y0xoJGZGEk70qfOM3Gi9nWycm-8k
19. Mycorrhizal Markets, Firms, and Co-Ops, Ronald Noë and E. Toby Kiers: https://tobykiers.com/
wp-content/uploads/2018/10/Noe%CC%88-Kiers-2018-Mycorrhizal-markets-TREE.pdf
20. Mycorrhizal Mycelium as a Global Carbon Pool, Heidi-Jayne Hawkins: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37279689/
21. Fantastic Fungi, Paul Stamets et al: https://fungi.com/products/fantastic-fungi
22. Inverter Network: https://www.inverter.network/
23. Drips Network: https://www.drips.network/
24. Conviction Voting: A Novel Continuous Decision Making Alternative to Governance, Je! Emmett: https://blog.
giveth.io/conviction-voting-a-novel-continuous-decision-making-alternative-to-governance-aa746cfb9475
25. Commons Stack: https://www.commonsstack.org/
83
26. 1Hive: https://1hive.org/
27. Token Engineering Commons: https://tecommons.org/
28. Reciprocal Rewards Stabilize Cooperation in the Mycorrhizal Symbiosis, E.
Toby Kiers et al: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21836016/
29. Finding the Mother Tree, Suzanne Simard: https://suzannesimard.com/finding-the-mother-tree-book/
30. Mycorrhizal Fungi Respond to Resource Inequality by Moving Phosphorus from Rich to Poor Patches Across Networks,
Matthew D. Whiteside et al: https://tobykiers.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Current-Biology-Whiteside-2019.pdf
31. Indigenomics Institute: https://indigenomicsinstitute.com/
32. A brief history of the Hiawatha Belt by the Onondaga Nation https://www.
onondaganation.org/culture/wampum/hiawatha-belt/
33. Collaborative Finance: https://cofi.informal.systems/about
34. Liquidity-Saving through Obligation-Clearing and Mutual Credit: An E!ective Monetary Innovation for
SMEs in Times of Crisis, Tomaž Fleischman et al: https://www.mdpi.com/1911-8074/13/12/295
35. Giveth Galaxy: https://giveth.io/
36. What a Mushroom Lives For: Matsutake and the Worlds They Make, Michael Hathaway:
https://www.michaeljhathaway.net/what-a-mushroom-lives-for
37. If Women Counted: A New Feminist Economics, Marilyn Waring: https://www.
marilynwaring.com/publications/if-women-counted.asp
38. Mushrooms as Rainmakers: How Spores Act as Nuclei for Raindrops, Maribeth O.
Hassett et al: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4624964/
39. Radical xChange: https://www.radicalxchange.org/
40. Plural Voting: https://www.radicalxchange.org/concepts/plural-voting/
41. Grassroots Economics https://www.grassrootseconomics.org/
42. Circles Coop: https://joincircles.net/
43. Community Asset Vouchers https://www.grassrootseconomics.org/pages/how-it-works
44. In Search of Mycotopia, Doug Bierend: https://www.chelseagreen.com/product/in-search-of-mycotopia-paperback/
45. The Mushroom at the End of the World, Anna Lowenhaupt-Tsing: https://press.princeton.
edu/books/paperback/9780691220550/the-mushroom-at-the-end-of-the-world
46. Altered States of Monetary Consciousness, Brett Scott: https://alteredstatesof.money/
47. Braiding Sweetgrass, Robin Wall Kimmerer: https://www.robinwallkimmerer.com/books




