#003 Tryptamine Hallucinogens & Consciousness (Esalen, December 1982) ~ Terence McKenna

Well, perhaps this morning's session will be a difficult act to top. I'm not sure it was a little rough getting here. I want to call your attention this morning to a very circumscribed place in organic nature that has, I think, an implication for what's been discussed here, not in the general sense of some of the theories that we've heard, but in the more particular and experiential sense. And that area is a family of hallucinogenic drugs that have not been mentioned particularly, which are the tryptophan-derived hallucinogens, dimethyltryptamine, psilocybin, and a hybrid drug which is an aboriginal drug used in the rainforests of South America called ayahuasca, which is dimethyltryptamine but made orally active by being taken in the presence of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. And the reason it seems to me appropriate to talk about these drugs in a conference devoted not only to consciousness, where its appropriateness is obvious, but devoted to quantum physics, is because it's my interpretation that the major quantum mechanical phenomenon that we all experience, aside from life itself, is dream and hallucination. Because these states, at least in the restricted sense that I'm using it, take place when the large amounts of radiation of various sorts that are conveyed into the body by the senses are restricted, and instead we see interior images, interior processes which are mental. And these things definitely arise at the quantum mechanical level. It's been shown by John Smythes and others that there are quantum mechanical correlates to hallucinogenesis of one atom. In other words, a compound will be inactive and one atom is moved on the ring, and then the compound becomes highly active. And to me, this is a perfect proof of the dynamic linkage at the formative level between matter, quantum mechanically described, and mind as experienced. So far, what I've said is true generally of hallucinogens and of the anesthetics that John is interested in, and of other drugs and experiences as well. In other words, ordeals, dieting, this sort of thing can elicit hallucination. But what makes this tryptamine family of drugs interesting is the intensity of the hallucination and the concentration in the visual cortex of the activity, so that there is an immense vividness to these interiorized landscapes. It is as if information was being presented three-dimensionally and fourth-dimensionally deployed as light, as surfaces which have information coded into them. And when you confront these dimensions, the dynamic relationship that is evolved is one of you relating to it, trying to decode what it is saying. And this phenomenon is not new. People have been talking to gods and demons for millennia. In fact, people have been talking to gods and demons for far more of human history than they have not. It is only the conceit of post-industrial societies, science and technology, that allows us to even propound some of the questions that we take to be so important. For instance, the question of contact with extraterrestrials is a complete red herring, because it is hedged about with a number of assumptions which a moment's reflection will tell you are completely false. In other words, the search for a radio signal from an extraterrestrial source is probably as culture-bound an assumption as to search the galaxy for a good Italian restaurant. That is just not going to happen. And yet this has been ruled as the means by which it is going to happen. Meanwhile, people all over the world, psychics, shamans, mystics, schizophrenics, their heads are filled with information. But it has been ruled a priori irrelevant, incoherent or mad. Only that which is consensually validated through these certain instrumentalities will be accepted as a signal. The other problem is that we are actually so inundated by these signals from these other dimensions that there is a great deal of noise in the circuit. This is what I would say to John if he were here, that it is no great accomplishment to hear a voice in the head. The accomplishment is to make sure that it's telling you the truth. Because the demons are of many kinds. Some are made of ions, some of mind. The ones of ketamine you'll find stutter often and are blind. And of all the others, I might say, as well, it is not that you kneel in genuflection before a god because you will be like Dorothy before Oz. There is no dignity in the universe unless you meet these things on your feet. And that means that you have an I-Thou relationship and you say, okay, well, you say you're omniscient, omnipresent, or you say you're from Zeta Reticuli, or you say, you say you're long on talk, but what can you show me? And magicians, people who invoke these things, have always understood that you go into it with your wits about you. Well, what does all this have to do with this family of drugs that I was talking about? Simply this, that this family of drugs has been overlooked whenever you, psilocybin is the one that most people have some experience with. Psilocybin, legally and in people's assumptions about it, is lumped with LSD. They say psilocybin, LSD, mescaline, da-da-da-da. It is, each one of these things is a phenomenologically defined universe unto itself. And psilocybin and DMT, although DMT is more intense and briefer in its action, these things invoke the logos, which means they work directly on the language centers, so that the important aspect of the experience is the dialogue. And as soon as you discover this about psilocybin, about tryptamines, you have to decide whether or not to enter into the dialogue to try and make sense of the incoming signal. And this is what I've done. I don't call myself a scientist. I call myself an explorer, because the area that I'm looking at, there is not enough data to dream of a science. We're at the stage where people map one river and indicate other rivers flowed into it, but they didn't ascend those rivers, and so nothing is known about that. And this Baconian collecting of data with no assumptions about what it has yielded, what it will yield, has pushed me to a number of conclusions that I didn't anticipate. Maybe by chronologically going through it, I can explain to you what I mean. And describing these trips raises all of the issues. I first took DMT in 1965, and a friend of mine came to me with this substance. How many of you have smoked DMT? By injection. Yeah. Well, it's surprising so few have, because we live in a society that is absolutely obsessed with sensation.
 Every kind of thing you can imagine, every therapy, every drug, every sexual configuration, all forms of media overload, all of these things are adored in this society. And yet here is something that actually, hedonists that we are, pursuers of the bizarre that we are, this thing is too much, or at least as they say in Spanish, bastante, it's enough, so much enough that it's too much. You smoke it and it comes on in about 15 seconds, you essentially fall back unconscious, your eyes are closed, and you hear a sound like ripping cellophane, like someone crumbling up a saran wrap or something like that and throwing it away. A friend of mine says this is your radio entelechy ripping out of the organic matrix. And you hear a tone, one of these ascending, this kind of thing. And then there is the normal hallucinogenic drug modality, which is a shifting geometric surface of migrating and changing colored forms. And then you come up against this, it's like, well there must be some analogy at the site of activity, all the bond sites are being occupied and you're actually seeing the state begin to come into being over a period of about 30 seconds. And then you are in a place which is, well I haven't taken all drugs, I think if someone tells you they've taken every drug you know they're confessing, they're a dilettante. It's much better to lean hard on a few, but I've taken most of the ones that would reflect or give a measure against this experience. And you find yourself in a space, it has a feeling of being underground or somehow insulated and domed, it's what in Finnegan's Wake is called the merry-go-round from the German word Raum for space. And you actually, the room is going around and in that space you feel, and Amit brushed this this morning, you feel like a child, you feel that you have come out somewhere in eternity and it always reminds me of the 53rd fragment of Heraclitus which is the Aeon is a child at play with colored balls. And you not only become the Aeon at play with colored balls, but there are entities which are in my book The Invisible Landscape, I describe them as self-transforming machine elves, and this is sort of what they are, they're dynamically contorting topological modules that are somehow distinct from the surrounding background, which is itself undergoing this continuous transformation. I always think of the scene in The Wizard of Oz after the house knocks the witch down and she's in munchkin land and the head of the munchkins comes with a scroll and they all have very squeaky voices and they sing a little song about, you are absolutely and completely dead, and they're marching around her. So the munchkins come, these hyper-dimensional machine elf entities, and they bathe you in love, which is spelled L-U-V, it's a kind of, well it's not erotic and it's not heartful but it sure feels good. And what they are saying is, don't be alarmed, remember and do what we are doing. Now another, and one of the interesting characteristics of DMT and another reason that I would prefer it over something like ketamine, with ketamine you are not afraid, you go unafraid. I think one of the interesting things about judging a drug is to see how eager people are to do it the second time. If they're eager to do it the second time, it's probably not worth bothering about because what is necessary to have validity in these experiences is the terror. The terror is the stamp of validity on the experience because it means, you know, this is real, we are in the balance and in these states with these tryptamine drugs, we read the literature, we know what the maximum doses are, the LD50, this and that, but so great is one's faith in mind that when you are out there, you know that the rules of pharmacology do not really apply and that control of existence on the plane is a matter of decision and luck and the roll of the dice. With ketamine you don't get this. So they are reassuring these little entities and saying, don't worry, don't worry, do this, look at this, meanwhile you are completely there, your ego is intact, your fear reflexes are intact, you are not fuzzed out at all, and consequently your reaction is this. And it persists and it persists and you breathe and it persists and they're saying, you know, don't get some loop of wonder going that quenches your ability to understand, just try not to be so amazed, try to hang in and look at what we're doing. And what they're doing is emitting sounds like music, like language, and these sounds pass, as Philo-Judeus said that the Logos would when it became perfect, pass from being heard without ever going over a quantized moment of distinction into things beheld. And so what you hear and behold, a language of alien meaning which is taking place right in front of you, and it is conveying alien information which cannot be Englished. Now being a monkey, there is a kind of cognitive dissonance that is set up in your hindbrain when you encounter an un-Englishable object, because you try to pour mind over it and it just sheds it like water off a duck's back, and then you try again and you are looking at it and this cognitive dissonance, this wow or flutter that is building off this object causes wonder or awe, awe at the brink of terror, so you have to keep controlling that. And the way to control it is to do what they're telling you to do, which is do what we are doing, and then you begin to experiment with your voice. And a phenomenon is possible. And by the way, I give this lecture in this way to invite the attention of experimentalists, whether they be shaman or laboratory people or tank people or whatever, because I'm telling you there's something going on with these drugs that is not part of the normal spectrum of hallucinogenic drug experience as it's known to be. So you begin this glossolalia-like phenomenon, although it isn't classical glossolalia which has been studied. In classical glossolalia, pools of saliva 18 inches across have been measured on the floors of these South American churches where people have been kneeling, and people always ask after the glossolalia has happened, they turn to the people next to them and say, did I do it? Did I do it? Did I speak in tongues? This isn't like that. This is simply a brain state which allows either the assembly language which lies behind language or a primal language of the sort that Robert Graves was talking about in The White Goddess, or a Kabbalistic language of the sort that is described in the Zohar, a primitive, primal, proto-Ursprach that comes out of you and you discover you can make the extraterrestrial objects, the feeling-toned, meaning-toned, three-dimensional, rotating complexes of light and color and transformation. And you feel like a child, and you are playing with colored balls. You have become the Aeon.
 So this happened to me 20 seconds after I did this drug on this day in 1965, and I was appalled. I mean, I thought that I had my ontological categories intact and I had taken LSD and it was all going forward. And this thing came upon me like a bolt from the blue, and I came down and I said, and I said it many times while I was coming down, I cannot believe it. This is impossible. This is completely impossible. Because it was not, you know, that I was kneeling at the feet of some Rishi or Roshi or Geshe or one of those guys. It was not that there was a declension of gnosis. It was that, friends, right here and now, one quanta away, there is raging a universe of active intelligence that is transhuman, hyperdimensional, and extremely alien. The god that John Lilly talks to, that they play these games with about moral values and setting the constraints of the universe, is not like this god at all. The chief thing about the god of tryptamine, if we can use that, I call it the Logos. That's what I think it is. And I make no judgments about it. I constantly engage it in dialogue, saying, you know, well, what are you? Are you some kind of diffuse consciousness which is in the ecosystem of the earth? And the problem with it is that it is just full of answers to these questions, you know. The true history of the galaxy over the last four and a half billion years is trivial to it. And it can show you, you know, you can tune these images. And, of course, the question always is independent validation, or at least for a time, for me, the question was. But as I attended more and more conferences like this and realized that the structure of the Western intellectual enterprise is so flimsy at the center that apparently no one knows anything, I became less reluctant to talk about these experiences, because they are experiences. They are primary datum for being. This is not remote, and yet it is so unspeakably bizarre that it casts into doubt all of man's historical assumptions. And any of you who are familiar with the books I've written, I've entertained various ideas about it. When we first discovered the mushroom in South America, and it does the same things that DMT does, although it builds up over an hour and is sustained for a couple of hours and then comes down. But there is the same confrontation with an alien intelligence and these extremely bizarre, uninglishable information complexes, and the hint that these drugs suggest that there is something that you can do with your body that you have never done, that no one has ever done, and that yet once it is done, it will be so obvious that it will fall right into the mainstream of cultural evolution. And I suggest that language either is the shadow of what I'm talking about, or that what I'm talking about is a further extension of language. Perhaps a human language is possible where actually the intent of meaning is beheld in three-dimensional space. If this can happen on DMT, it means it is at least, under some circumstances, accessible to human beings. Well, given 10,000 years and a high-pressure technology looking at that, does anyone doubt for a moment that it could become just a cultural convenience in the same way that mathematics has become a cultural convenience, or language has become a cultural convenience? But anyway, in confrontation with this organized intellect on the other side, many theories were elaborated. The theory that we wrote about in the book on psilocybin that teaches you how to grow it was that it was in fact an extraterrestrial, that in fact the physical body of the mushroom was the flesh of a species that did not evolve on Earth. And it said this, it had a whole rap, it said yes, well, once a culture takes control, has complete understanding of its genetic information, it re-engineers itself for survival. And our version of that is a mycelial network strategy when in contact with a planetary surface, and a spore dispersion strategy as a means of radiating throughout the galaxy. And though I am troubled with how freely Bell's non-locality theorem is thrown around, nevertheless, my friends on the other side do seem to be in possession of a huge body of information drawn from the history of the galaxy. And they say that there is nothing unusual about this, that man's conceptions of organized intelligence and the dispersion of life in the galaxy and this sort of thing are just hopelessly culture-bound and that the galaxy has been an organized system for billions of years and that life evolves under so many different regimens of temperature and pressure that searching for an extraterrestrial who will sit down and have a conversation with you is like searching for a good Italian restaurant out in the galaxy. The main problem with extraterrestrials is to recognize them, because time is so vast and evolutionary strategies so varied and environments so varied that the trick is to know that contact is being made at all. The mushroom, if you can believe what it says in one of its moods, is a symbiote and it desires symbiosis with the human species. It achieved it early by associating itself with the domesticated cattle that people keep. In other words, like the plants man grows and the animals he husbands, the mushroom sought to inculcate itself into that family, because it's very clear that where human genes go, those genes will be carried. It's the old developed burrs so you can attach yourself to the fur of an animal and it will carry you with it wherever it goes. The mushroom, by being domesticated by human beings, has become a part of the human family. But this is all just beginning. Speaking for a moment in terms of the classic mushroom cults in Mexico, they were destroyed by the coming of the conquest. The Franciscans had an absolute monopoly on theophagia, which is eating God, and when they came upon these people calling a mushroom Tiananacatl, the flesh of the gods, they set to work with the Inquisition and were able to push this thing into the mountains of Oaxaca so that it only survived in a few villages until Valentina and Gordon Wasson went in the 1950s and found it there. And the metaphor I like for that, another metaphor, you see, you balance these explanations. Now I'm going to sound like I don't think it's an extraterrestrial. It may be, it may not be. It may be, what I've come recently to suspect, is that the human soul is so alienated from us in our present culture that we treat it as an extraterrestrial. The most alien thing in the cosmos is the human soul. That's why these movies like E.T. or even Alien, those guys could come tomorrow and the DMT trance is weirder and holds more promise for information for the human future. It is that intense a kind of thing. But what I was saying was they burned...
 the mushroom cult, they forced it into repression, they burned the libraries of Greece at an earlier period, they dispersed the ancient knowledge, they shattered the stellar and astrological machinery that had been built, and by they I mean the Greco-Hellenistic Christian Judaic tradition, and they built a triumph of mechanism, they realized the alchemical dreams of the 15th and 16th century, and the 20th century, with the transformation of elements, the discovery of gene transplant, and this kind of thing, but then, having conquered the new world, having driven its people into cultural fragmentation and diaspora, in the mountains of Mexico, they came upon the body of Osiris, the condensed body of Eros, where it had retreated at the coming of the Christos, and this thing is now unleashed. If any of you read Phil K. Dick's, one of his last novels, Velis, where he talks about the Logos, how it went into the ground, it was a creature of pure information, and it went into the ground at Nag Hammadi, at the burying of the Chenaboskian library in 270, but it was information and it existed there until 1947, and then the texts were translated, people read them, and as soon as people had the information in their minds, the symbiote came alive, because it is a thing of pure information, and this is the same sort of thing. The mushroom consciousness is the consciousness of the other, both in hyperspace, which means in dream and in the drug trance, at the quantum foundation of being, and in the human future, and after death. And all of these places, which were thought to be discrete and separate parts, are seen to be part of a single continuum. What history is, is the dash, over ten to fifteen thousand years, from monkeyhood to flying saucer, without ripping the envelope of the species so badly, that the birth is aborted, and fails, and we remain in feises. And history, essentially then, is the shockwave of eschatology. Something is at the end of time, and it is casting an enormous shadow over human becoming, and it is drawing all human becoming toward it, so that all the wars of history, the philosophies, the rapes, the pillaging, the migrations, the cities, the civilizations, all of this is occupying a microsecond of geological, planetary, and galactic time, as the monkeys react to the symbiote which is in the environment, which is feeding the information from the true, about the historical situation in the galaxy. And it is not, I don't belong to the school of people who say, well, we couldn't have done it if they hadn't taught us writing, and that sort of thing. They came from the stars and taught us to measure rap. What I'm saying is, I hope, something much more profound than that. It's that as nervous systems evolve to higher and higher levels, they become more and more to understand the true situation in which they are embedded. And the true situation in which we are embedded is an organism, an organization of active intelligence that is on a galactic scale. And science may be culture-bound, mathematics may be culture-bound, people can argue about these things, but no one knows, because we have never dealt with an alien mathematics or an alien culture except in this limited area that is ruled out of bounds by the guardians of the truth. In other words, shamanic experience, drug experience, this is ruled out of bounds, and it is because it is the source of novelty, the cutting edge of the ingression of the novel into the plenum of being is happening there. I mean, think about it for a moment. If the human mind does not loom large in the history, in the coming history of the human race, then what is to become of us? The people who worry about getting the epistemological and ontological bases of these things nailed down say that the mathematics is in good order. What the problem is, is that the mathematics does not map well into English or any other natural language. And so people have violent disagreements in English when they are completely in agreement over the mathematical foundation of it. So I am saying we are at the beginning of human thought. This is the birth crisis of intelligence, and intelligence is something which is moving through the higher primates now at greater and greater speed. We know that there were primate species that were not human that chipped tools and made fire and drilled beads. So the question, are we unique, it has already been answered by the physical anthropologists. There have been other intelligent monkeys walking this planet. We exterminated them, and so now we are unique. But what is loose on this planet is language, self-replicating information systems. It may be a further rarification or a further hypothetization of what is happening in DNA. In other words, learning, coding, templating, recoding, testing, retesting, recoding. It may be, and the immune system does that too, it may be an extension of that or it may be a quality of an entirely different order. But whatever it is, it is in the monkeys now and moving through them and moving out their hands and into the technique with which we have surrounded ourselves. The end state that this pushes toward and the tryptamine state seems to me to be in that sense trans-temporal. It is an anticipation of the future. It's as though Plato's metaphor were true. Plato said, time is the moving image of eternity. The tryptamine state is as though you step out of the moving image and into eternity, into the nunc stans, the standing now, the standing waveform of Thomas Aquinas and in the modern parlance of holographic transforms. And in that state then, all of human history is seen to lead toward this culminating moment. And I take the acceleration that we see in the processes around us, the fact that fire 50,000 years ago or whatever it was, language 35,000, whatever, then measurement 5,000, then Galileo 400, then Heisenberg. What is obviously happening is that everything is being drawn together. The description our physicists are giving us of the universe, which is that it lasted billions of years, will last billions of years, is a dualistic conception, an inductive projection that is very unsophisticated when it comes to the nature of consciousness and language. What Ahmet has gotten at in this conference, that consciousness collapses the state vector and causes the stuff to undergo what Whitehead called the formality of actually occurring, is the beginning of the understanding of the centrality of man. We have been on a decentralizing bender for 500 years, getting, saying that, you know, no, the earth is not the center of the universe, man is not the beloved of God, moving ourselves out toward the edge of the galaxy. The fact is that the densest organizational material in the universe is the human cortex, and the densest and richest experience in the universe is the experience you're having right now. Everything in the cosmos should be constellated outward from the perceiving self. That is the primary datum, and the perceiving self, under the influence of these drugs, gives information that is totally at variance with
 the models that we inherit in this society. So what I'm saying is, first of all, that this dimension exists. Second of all, on one level, it ain't no big deal. People have been into this for millennia. It's just that we are so grotesquely alienated and taken out of what life is about that to us it comes as a revelation. Because the closest we can get to it is to try and feel in some dilettantesque mode the power of myth or something, you know, and it's this grasping after, and it's very over-intellectualized sort of process. I see it's noon. They say if you don't strike oil in half an hour, you should stop boring. Let me see if there's anything to sum up about this. The two things that I want to leave you with is, first of all, always in these kind of discussions where you present yourself as an explorer and not a scientist, yada yada, it's always that testimonials are what's being given. I do not believe that I am unique, because if I believed that I were unique, none of my conclusions would have any meaning, because they would be of worth only to me. So everything I've described this morning has got to be more or less a part of the human condition, meaning, of course, maybe I have some facility for it, maybe somebody else, it's very difficult to achieve, but it is part of the human condition. When I first smoked the DMT, I was an art history major, and I have a very thorough, for a non-professional, thorough knowledge of art history, and religious art in particular, and what blew me away was that there is nothing, and I was a Jungian very much into that, and there was no clue, no clue that these places exist, and I could not understand that. I said, well, surely art is about carrying images out of the other, from the Logos to the world, drawing ideas down into matter, why is human art history so devoid of what I experienced so totally? And I don't really know the answer to that. The alienness is very important, and I think, I haven't spoken at all today about flying saucers, or only by implication, but this is a favorite subject of mine, because I think the flying saucer is the central motif to be understood in order to get a handle on reality here and now. We are alienated, so alienated that the self appears to, it must disguise itself as an extraterrestrial in order to not alarm us with the truly bizarre dimensions that it encompasses. And if any of you saw the movie E.T., the whole point of that movie was for, to get the kid and the audience and everybody jacked around to the place where the kid, with tears of joy streaming down his face, could look out into the cool of the purple evening and say, E.T., I love you, and this is a great thing, it is a healing of the psychic discontinuity that we have been on since at least the 16th century, possibly earlier. The testimony that I want to give today is that magic is alive in hyperspace, and you don't have to believe me, or follow me, or do anything to validate that, except form a relationship with these plant drugs, and that's the first time I think I've used the word plant. But that, for me, is the defining characteristic. Remember my little ditty about the demons that are of many kinds, made of ions, made of mind. There is some surety that you are dealing with a creature of integrity if you deal with a plant, but the creatures born in the demonic artifice of laboratories have to be dealt with very, very carefully, and I think I'll just leave it right there. You might want to mention that DMT is manufactured in the human brain, but in sub-threshold doses. I could have talked about all of that, that DMT is an endogenous hallucinogen, that psilocybin is 4-phosphoryloxy-NN-dimethyltryptamine, that serotonin, which is the major neurotransmitter running your brain, found in all life, found most in man, is 5-hydroxytryptamine. The very fact that you can smoke DMT, and I don't know if I mentioned, but it takes five minutes, you do it, it comes on in 45 seconds, it lasts three minutes, you come down in two, that's it. The very fact that that can happen means that your brain is absolutely at home with this compound. It just says, oh, I know what this is, I know how to de-alkylate, de-animate, and it does it. Where a drug like LSD, it clings, it hangs around, ketamine as well, ketamine as well. If I could say one more thing, just a cautionary note, because I always feel odd telling people, you know, verify this thing, it's out there, and the means is the drug, people should be very careful. I said earlier in this talk that I was addressing experimentalists, psychologists, psychiatrists, I don't mean to scare anyone off, but you should build up to it. These are bizarre dimensions of extraordinary power and beauty, and I don't believe there's any set rule for acquiring power to not be overwhelmed, but I think moving carefully, reflecting a great deal, always trying to map it back on the history of the race and the philosophical and religious accomplishments of the species. This should always be done. If John were here, I would get a debate going with him, all drugs are dangerous, all drugs at sufficient doses or repeated over a sufficient amount of time, there are risks. The possibility of kindling epileptic effects is well known in ketamine, there's a stack of literature on that, if anybody is intending to do ketamine who hasn't done it, the first place you go when you're going to take a new drug is the library, you know, read through all this stuff. Terence, can I ask you a couple of questions, they're most intriguing to me. One comment, there is in the Oriental art history some, if not a tremendous amount of information of this demonic aspects, both from experimenting with drugs, which are very common in religious sects all over, India, China, all of these ancient countries, drugs were always used, plant drugs of course, they didn't have laboratory, they actually did some too. But in the Zen traditions also, there is the unmistakable evidence of encountering these demons, and they are talked about in various ways, in the enlightenment experience of the Buddha, it was confronting the Mara, the god of death, which sounds very similar to the terror experience that you talk about, in retrospect we are beginning to understand that all of these experiences must occur because something similar happened in the religious experience and this drug experience, in fact these drug experiences have been extremely valuable in telling us about many of the other experiences that we find in the esoteric literature. The comment that interests me most is that you said that the terror in the drug experience is very essential, and it is better to use the aspect of terror as knowing that you are into the real thing, than drugs which gave into these pleasure trips, where you are never sure. And what is your question? That is the question. Could you elucidate this a little bit? Why do you think that way? Talk about the terror. Talk about the terror and also, why do you think that drugs switch to otherwise? I'm not saying that there is something intrinsic.
 good about terror. I'm saying that, granted the situation, if you are not terrified, then you must be somewhat in contact with the full dynamics of the situation. To not be terrified means either you're a fool or you have taken a drug which paralyzes the ability to be terrified. I have nothing against, you know, hedonic experience, and I certainly bring something out of it, but it must move your heart, and it will not move your heart unless it deals with the issues of life and death. And if it deals with the issues of life and death, it will move you to fear, it will also move you to tears, it will also move you to laughter. But these places are profoundly strange and alien, and I agree with you and I disagree with you about the art thing. I mean, I've been to Khajuraho, and I've been to Bhubaneswar, and I'm fairly familiar with that art collected Tanka's, all these things, and I did see similarities in my LSD experiences. In fact, it was LSD experiences that drove me to collect Vajrayana art. But what amazed me was the total absence of the motifs of DMT. It is not there. It is not there in the funerary art of Egypt. It is, well, I mean, there are certain... there's a story, a very interesting story, by Jorge Luis Borges called The Sect of the Phoenix. Do any of you know that story? It takes a page and a half. And he starts out and he says, there is a sect, and it touches all mankind. Its practitioners have been the victims of persecution in every war in history. Its practitioners have held the red-hot poker at every Inquisition in history. It touches the wealthy. It touches the poor. It respects no language barrier. It respects no age, no nothing. And it involves a right, and the practitioners of the sect view the right as trivial. It may be done in doorways. It is propitious to do it at the waxing of the moon. It involves something orange. It is old. The practitioners never speak of their cult, and when they do, they refer to it as the secret. And this... and he goes on and he traces it to the gypsies, and he never explicitly says what it is, but I think if you know his other story, The Ayliff, you put these two together, and the Ayliff is the subject of the cult of the secret. And I don't know... The Mushrooms said, and I'm sure you'll be horrified at this, the Mushrooms said to me in the Amazon when they were revealing all this information and deputizing us to do all these things, that we said, why us? Why should we be, you know, the ambassador of an alien species into human culture? And they said, because you have never believed anybody, because you have never given over your belief to anyone, and this is somehow necessary. So I... the sect of the Phoenix, the cult of this experience, is perhaps millennia old, but it has not yet been brought to light where the threads may run. The drug... the history of drug-taking on this planet is fairly well understood. Mushroom-taking was confined to the central isthmus of Mexico, supposedly, the kind of mushrooms I'm talking about, not Amanita muscaria, which is a different issue and a different compound. But psilocybin was restricted to central Mexico until the Spanish conquest. The Stropharia cubensis, which is the mushroom we wrote our book about, has not... is not known to be inculcated into a shamanic rite anywhere in the world. DMT is used in the Amazon, and has been for millennia, but by cultures so primitive, not... I mean, the most primitive cultures use these DMT drugs. The Amazon is a world where you go nowhere except on... on water. Rivers are everything. Yet there are people who have not... who shun boats, don't build them, don't have them, think it's a passing thing, not here to stay. And they are in to these hallucinogens. I am baffled, and I am baffled by what I call the black hole effect, which seems to surround DMT. You know, a black hole is a curvature of space such that not only light can't leave it, but no signal can leave it. Therefore, no information can leave it. And whether this is true in practice of spinning black holes and yada yada, but as a metaphor, think of it that way. DMT is like an intellectual black hole, in that once you know about it, it's very hard to... for anyone to understand you when you're talking about it. They don't hear you, and the more you are able to articulate what it is, the less they are able to understand. And this is why I think people who are enlightened, if we may for a moment co-map these two things, are silent. They're silent because you can't understand them. And why this thing has not been looked at by scientists, by thrill-seekers, by anybody, I am not sure. But I recommend it to your attention, and I believe we didn't even touch on the human future that the psychedelic state implies. But the future is bound to be psychedelic, because the future belongs to the mind, and we are just beginning to push the buttons on the mind. And once we take a serious engineering approach to this, we're going to discover, you know, the plasticity, the mutability, the eternality of the mind, and I believe release it from the monkey. My vision of the final human future is that what history is about, in engineering terms, is an effort to exteriorize the soul and interiorize the body, so that the exterior soul exists as a superconducting lens of translinguistic matter generated out of the forehead of each of us at a critical juncture, our psychedelic bar mitzvah. And then from that point on you are eternal, and somewhere in the solid-state matrix of the translinguistic lens that you have become, your body image exists as a holographic wave transform, and you are at play in the fields of the Lord. You live in Elysium, Versailles in the morning, and so that's it. We have we have plenty of time for questions. We have not been stopping at twelve-twenty every day, so I'll go on. Well, I think you're right. I think that the tragedy of our cultural situation is that we have no shamanic tradition. Shamanism is primarily techniques, not ritual. It is a set of techniques that work, that have been worked out over millennia, and that make it possible, perhaps not for everyone, to explore these areas, but for people of predilection. And there is also a method of noticing people of predilection and then taking them through it. But I agree with you. I feel very lucky because I've weathered some terrific storms and capsizing out there on the dark ocean of mind, but I always make the metaphor that how many of us, how many people, if they didn't know how to sail, could learn to sail if they came upon a sailboat just drawn up on the sand? And that's the challenge. And a great deal, obviously a great deal, of the success of any person in that situation would depend on the weather. And the weather...
 is something one must be able to intuit. If the sea is calm, you have a fair chance of mastering the rudiments of sailing before your mettle is tested in any situation. If the weather is not calm, there's great danger. And I feel very lucky. And if any of you who have read The Invisible Landscape know that we put in some fairly tough times in the Amazon. There was an instance of an irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibition episode which lasted 22 days. And had we not been in the Amazon basin, completely unreachable by modern health care delivery systems, it would have fared far different for us. Fortunately, we were able to go through the entire thing. And we are trepidatious. I mean, I am not an abuser of anything, let me tell you. I take these things as often as I can, but nevertheless fairly occasionally, several times a year. And I always approach it with fear and trembling. And it's been very good to us. I mean, I have two amazing children and a lovely wife. My head is full of ideas. My house is full of books. It's been very good to us. And something perhaps oblique to what you said, but when I had the dialogue with it about why us, and it said because you never followed any teachers, it also said something else, which I am not sure I can say this without sounding hubristic, but I don't mean it that way. We also said, why us? And it said, because you are good. And when we were flirting with the flying saucer and trying to, also the philosopher's stone, trying to coax it out of the matrix, there would be these heated discussions between my brother and myself and the other people on the expedition. Why should we do this? Isn't this going to be like atomic energy or anything else? Isn't it going to be used by people to coerce other people and to gain control over them? And on this point, the Logos was very insistent, and it said, you are not to worry about that. This belongs to the just, and no one can lay a finger on it unless their heart is pure. Wow. Yolanda, do you have a question? Yes. Yes. Yes. You said something about predilections. You could recognize the predilection for being able to do this well. In classical, in societies where shamanism is a going institution, the predilections are fairly easy to state. Oddness, uniqueness in an individual, epilepsy is often a signature in preliterate societies. Or surviving an unusual ordeal in an unexpected way. For instance, people who are struck by lightning and live are thought to make marvelous shaman. And often, people who nearly die of a disease and fight their way back after weeks and weeks in an indeterminate zone, they are thought to have, it's about strength of soul. And so there must be some sign of strength of soul or of hypersensitivity to these places. In traveling around the world and dealing with shaman, what I find as the distinguishing characteristic is an extraordinary centeredness. And also invariably, the shaman is an intellectual. He is also invariably alienated from his own society. So when you go into these Amazon villages and you're surrounded by tittering women with babes at each breast and all that, and all the people just think you're very odd with all your gear, huge sweating, pouring pheromones into their living space. And they just think of you as people from outer space. The shaman sees exactly who you are. And he says, oh, here's somebody to have a conversation with. These people are into the same thing. And whenever you gain the confidence of a shaman, the anthropological literature always presents them as embedded in a tradition and the whole sociological reductionist rap about shaman. But when you get to know them, they are always very sophisticated about what they are doing. They are the true phenomenologists of this world because they know that it's a drug and they call these energy fields spirits. But we hear the word through a series of narrowing declensions of meaning that are worse almost than not understanding. They are, speaking of spirit, the way Amit might speak of charm. It's a technical gloss for a very complicated concept. And I'm sure in all of us, there are varying greater and lesser degrees of shamanic predilection. One of the ideas that my brother and I have tossed around is there are families, shamanic families. And since by our analysis of what's going on, we are, in other words, strictly speaking, hallucinogen shaman. I haven't talked at all about shamanism without hallucinogens. The hallucinogenic shamanic family lines are obviously have a basis in the genome. In other words, it's all about how many of these sites of activity, how well your serotonin, all how these things work together so that you may have these experiences. Some people claim to have these experiences on the natch. I am a very difficult person to move off the baseline of consciousness. And I scoured India. And I have sat at a number of people's feet, although perhaps my attitude was wrong. Because what it comes down to for me is, what can you show me? And I always ask that question. And finally, in the Amazon, the people said, well, let's just get our machete and hike out here a half a mile. We'll get some of this stuff and boil it up. And I'll show you what I can show you. And, uh. OK, I know epilepsy. Uh-huh. I'd like to know what happens to us epileptic. You know, it's nice to be told we're special. But what is it? Where is it in the brain that we can do something? You mean do something to manage it? Or do something to take advantage of it? It hurts so much when I have it. And sometimes it's like it's such energy that people close to me cannot stand it, you know? Well, there are many things to be said about this. First of all, you have to realize a person in these pre-literate shamanic societies that I'm talking about, who had serious epilepsy, would probably not make it. In other words, drug intervention, I am assuming. I'm no expert on epilepsy. Drug intervention is necessary in serious cases of grand mal epilepsy because nothing else is known to do for it. People die in these societies that I'm talking about all the time for all kinds of reasons. Death is really much more among them than it is in our society. Those who have epilepsy who don't die are brought to the attention of the shaman and trained in breathing and drugs and other things. And the fact is we don't really know all of what goes on. These secret information systems have not been well studied. Then the person performs this function. But shamanism is not, in these traditional societies, a terribly pleasant office. You are not normally allowed to have any political power because you're sacred. You always sit at the headman's side in the council meetings. But after the council meeting, your hut is at the edge of the village. You are peripheral to society's goings on in every sense of the word.
 and you are only called on in crisis, and the crisis can be someone is dying or ill, there's a psychological difficulty, a marital quarrel, or someone has stolen something, or weather must be predicted, and you perform these functions, we are not that society. So, when I explore these drugs, and when I try to call their attention, to call people's attention to them, it is as a phenomenon, I don't know what we can do with it. I have a feeling that we can do a great deal with it, but the mindset that I always take to it is simply exploratory, Baconian, mapping and gathering facts. I have migraines, there's one school of thought on migraines which holds that these are slow epileptic releases, there are similarities between epilepsy and migraine, and so speaking from migraine, there is what are called scatomata, which are travelling hallucinations of scintillating light that move across your field of vision, and intense physical pain accompanies these things, and people have extracted information from this state, used it, the 13th century mystic Hildegard von Bingen is known for a series of prayers and paintings, very odd paintings, that it now has been pretty conclusively shown she was a mystic, that's obvious from what she said, but she must have been experiencing migraine scatomata to do these paintings in the way that she did. I don't have any answer for you, all I can say is, quote Herbert Gunther, who talks about human uniqueness, and says you must come to terms with your uniqueness. A lot of the talk that has gone on in this conference has been, as I said before, about general model building, that seemed to me terrifically naive about the role of language and being as the primary fact of experience, in other words, what good is a theory of how the universe works if it's a series of tensor equations that even when you understand them perfectly, nowhere come tangential to your experience. It's like you're creating an explanation for whom? For God? So that God can know how it works? It is the only intellectual or noetic or spiritual path worth following, seems to me, the one that builds on your own experience. And so you are given a unique situation, a challenge, epilepsy, an opportunity and a challenge. For someone else it could be a high IQ, or these very subtle and unstudied predilections for various drugs, or susceptibility to pheromonal exchange by having very sensitive pheromonal receptors. There are psychiatrists who claim to be able to diagnose schizophrenia by smell, and that's an extreme case. But what I'm saying is you must come to terms with your uniqueness and that is all you can do, really. Yes? You have described all of these experiences as coming from the plants, which are of the earth, and you have described all of these experiences as extraterrestrial, and I don't know what you mean by extraterrestrial. Okay, here's what I mean. The plants. A fungus is not a plant. Fungi are a third kingdom in nature. Fungi require oxygen, just like we do, and respire carbon dioxide. It is as though they are an amorphous animal, and they've always been lumped in with the plants. They've always been a very active plant. But once the genetics was looked at closely, and the metabolism was looked at closely, it's a third category. The information that comes from ayahuasca, which is made from the vine, the Banisteriopsis capi, which is a higher plant, is earth-centered and healing, largely, and seems to be about the envelopes of information that surround the earth, and our bodies, and the jungle, that sort of thing. What the mushroom says about itself is that it is an extraterrestrial organism, that spores can survive the conditions of extraterrestrial space. They are black, deep, deep purple, the color that they would have to be to absorb in the deep UV end of the spectrum. The casing of a spore is one of the hardest substances, it is the hardest organic substance known. The density is similar to that of a metal, the density of electrons in the surface of that thing. Are you saying that the mushrooms never evolved on earth? What do you mean extraterrestrial in the material sense? That's what the mushroom said. I am not sure. And global currents form on the outside of the spore, and it is very light, and by Brownian motion these things percolate to the edge of a planet's atmosphere, and then, through interaction with energetic particles coming in from space, you understand I'm talking now about an evolutionary strategy, where only one in ten high twelve spores actually makes the transition across the stars, but it's a biological strategy for radiating throughout the galaxy without a technology. It just takes a billion or so years, but it's the same principle by which a plant migrates into a desert. Now, your theory sounds very similar to Fred Hoyle and Chandra Bikram Singh, and it's exactly that theory for all of us. I was very happy that they came along with that theory. In fact, their theory is that all of us came that way, because they found it's very interesting, because there are, yeah, we are comets, but that's only one vehicle. The interesting thing is that there are much more nebulae than there are life-supporting planets. And nebulae had just the perfect environment, nourishment-wise, for not the macromolecules that Frank talks about, but the pre-macromolecules, that they too are compounds, but simple compounds. Which can then go to a planet and start really, really doing their thing. And they think that this is what started all of us. And there is nothing, nobody can come up against this with anything except the inertia of their opinions. The facts are very nebulous. In other words, there are no fungi in the fossil record older than 60 million years. The orthodox explanation of that is that they are soft-bodied and just didn't occur. But on the other hand, we have soft-bodied worms and things from the bottom of oceans in the Flintstone Chert that weigh in at just over a billion years old. So I don't believe what the mushroom tells me. We have a dialogue. It is a very strange person and has many bizarre opinions. And I entertain it the way I would rib this guy or somebody else and say, well, so that's what you think, eh? And I often felt, you know, that I had the dilemma, when the mushroom started saying it was an extraterrestrial, I felt that I was in the dilemma of a child who destroys a radio to see if there are little people inside. I couldn't figure out whether the mushroom is the alien or the mushroom is some kind of technological artifact allowing me to hear the alien, and the alien is actually light years away, and some kind of bell non-locality system is allowing it to come through. Can I elaborate that a little bit? Would you agree with this statement? Mushroom is a conscious being. However, the consciousness is not released, you know, it's a latent virtual kind of consciousness. It's not released until we become directly connected to it in a state of the brain where we are into the unit of consciousness. That's what it says. It says, I require the nervous system of a mammal. Do you have one handy? Shall we go to lunch? Thank you.

#004 The Definitive UFO Tape (Mill Valley, April 1983) ~ Terence McKenna

In the two books that you have written, I have read of UFO inferences, would you expand upon those things? Yes, well, actually in the first book, the UFO reference is few and far between. I think it's only touched on once. I deliberately suppressed it from the Invisible Landscape because I thought it was already lit up like a Christmas tree with bizarre ideas, and that I would save that particular ornament for its own treatment later. But in the second work, Down to Earth, Psilocybin and the UFOs, I deal with that directly because it seems to me that in Psilocybin and the tryptamine hallucinogens generally, we actually have a state of mind that is very similar to the state of mind reported to accompany the UFO contact, and that these things could somehow be co-mapped one on to the other, that at active levels of Psilocybin, there is visionary ideation of spaceships, alien creatures, alien information, a general futuristic, Saucerian kind of quality to the place it conveys you to, that seem to be coming from the same place as the modern myth of the UFO, if it is a myth, and we discovered in our exploration to the Amazon in 1971 that this was quite true, that involvement with these tryptamines as they accumulated in your system, you seem to acquire the ability to inhabit more than one world at once, as though superimposed over reality, there was a super-reality, a hyper-dimensional world where information was accessible in magical ways, and in the wake of that experience, I just went through the literature of the mystical experience and the Saucer experience, and ideas like alchemy and that sort of thing, and eventually saw that they were all talking about the same thing, that there is an experience which is gaining ascendancy for modern man, which is called contact with the UFO, but it is not reducible to any of the things that the main people who've written about it have said it could be reduced to, it is not, strictly speaking, a contact from a space-faring race that has come from the stars, it is not mass hysteria, it is not delusion either, there is in fact something very odd going on, something which is as challenging to modern epistemological notions as a US Air Force jet transport landing on some field outside a village in New Guinea, in other words, here is an area that is close to the experience of people, in that a very large percentage of people claim to have seen flying saucers, an area close to the experience of people where science is totally helpless, it seems as though reality is haunted by a spinning vortex that renders science helpless, and the spinning vortex is the UFO, and it comes and goes on a mass scale, haunting history like a ghost. You mean the records in the Aztec records are the whole thing about the white men coming to the new world in spaceships? Well, all these cases have been made for saucer intervention, but no, actually I'm speaking more specifically of the post-World War II spinning silver disc in the sky, and the myth that accompanies it of the large pointed-eared, cat-eyed, it has numerous variations, but it's clearly an idea complex emerging in the psyche, and the question is, what is it? Is it prophecy? Is it a vision of the human future? What is it? And the post-modern phase of flying saucers speculation is the phase which recognizes that the saucer is somehow mixed up with human psychology, that it is no mere light seen in the sky, that when you go back and question the people who see these things, that right before they saw it, they were thinking something very odd and unusual, which they didn't normally think about, or right after it, and in other words, it seemed to be a kind of ideological catalyst for some purpose, and Valet, in a book called The Invisible College, was the first person to suggest what I would call the cultural thermostat theory. He said that the flying saucer was an object from the collective unconscious of the human race that appeared basically to break the force of any set of ideas that were gaining dominance in their explanatory power at the expense of their ethical force. In other words, that it was like a confounding which would enter history again and again. When history would build to a certain kind of boil, the confounding would occur. Mind Parasites does that too. This is a similar idea, right? And he suggested that perhaps the career of Christ was an earlier confounding, where Roman technique and Roman militarism and all these things was unseated by, a peculiar religion which no educated Roman could take seriously for a moment. I mean, an educated Roman was a democracy anatomist and well-versed in Epicureanism and sophism, and yet the servants were telling stories about a rabbi who had risen from the dead and had somehow reopened a gate that had been closed since creation, so that the soul of man could again be reunited with God. And this stuff made no sense to the Roman authorities, and yet it quickly overwhelmed the empire. The modern context is very similar to that, in that science now can be seen to have replaced Roman imperial aspirations as a dominant mythos of control. And it has these neat and tidy explanations of the world, yet persistently from the folk, there come stories of lights in the sky and strange beings and bizarre encounters that they cannot quite lay to rest. Oh yes, it's a real, whatever real means, I mean, it is a real experience. It is phenomenologically real. In fact, my contention is that psilocybin induces it, and that perhaps on a mass scale, it's as though there is an event at the end of history of such magnitude that it casts miniature reflections of itself back into time. And these are these apocalyptic concrescences which haunt the historical continuum, igniting religions and various hysterias and seeping ideas into highly tuned nervous systems. How does it do that? Well, it's as though, like Plato said, time is the moving image of eternity. It does it, because in its dimension, all these things are somehow co-existent in time or outside of time. They have already happened. History is the formality of viewing this hyper-dimensional object in a three-dimensional way by transecting it many, many times until you've built up an entire picture of it. But the mushroom evokes a profound planetary consciousness that shows you that history is just this froth of artifact production that has appeared in the last 10 to 15,000 years, spread across the planet very quickly, but that mind in man just goes back and back into the darkness. And one of the things we were saying in The Invisible Landscape was that there are powers...
 in the human body, or avenues of understanding that have not been followed because of epistemological biases, so that, for instance, the idea that you could use your voice to effect molecular changes in your own nervous system, it sounds on one level preposterous. On the other hand, it's simply a formalized way of noting the fact that sound is energy, that energy can be transduced in a number of ways, and then when you direct it against your body, you obviously do make changes. Well, that's the typical chanting. That goes on in shamanism worldwide. Well, these people are navigating themselves in a space which we have lost touch with, that for us, I'm speaking now as a society, only erupts in the weakened situation of a weakened psychic constitution where there is the element of panic in the mythological sense of Pan bursting through from the underworld, the emergence of the flying saucer. What it is, is it's an autonomous psychic entity that has slipped from the control of the ego and is approaching, laden with the otherness of the unconscious, so that as you look into it, you behold yourself, your world, your information field, all deployed in this strange, distant, almost transhumanly cool way which links it to the myth of the extraterrestrial. The extraterrestrial is the human oversoul in its general and particulate expression on the planet, which doesn't rule out the possibility that the mushroom places you in contact with extraterrestrials somewhere in the galaxy, actually circling other suns, but it probably means that that communication is mediated through the oversoul. The oversoul is some kind of field that is generated by human beings, but that is not under the control of any institution, any government, any religion. It is actually the most intelligent thing on the planet, and it regulates human culture through the release of ideas out of eternity and into the continuum of history. And what the UFO is, is an idea to confound, and its purpose is to confound science, because science has begun to threaten the existence of the human species, leave alone the ecosystem of the planet. And at that point, a shock is necessary for a culture, a shock equivalent to this culture to the shock of the resurrection on Roman imperialism. And the myths that are building are like the messianic myths that preceded the appearance of Christ, and what they are of, is of an intervention by a hyper-intelligent entity that comes from the stars and reveals the right way to live, and wrecks science by a series of demonstrations that make it apparent that the purpose of human history is nothing less than total immersion in the teachings of the saucer. And once this message is slammed home via a worldwide TV hook-up and that sort of thing, it will just disappear. And in the wake of that, you see, what you have is this hysteria of abandonment, similar to the hysteria of abandonment that swept the Christian communities when, after the crucifixion, the resurrection, the coming of the millennium was postponed century after century. And the development of science will cease. This flying saucer-oriented religion, which is definitely the emergence of an archetype of enormous power, in the same way that Roman science was stymied for a thousand years by the immersion in the words of one rabbi. Scientists are not going to like your opinion. Well, they should be forewarned. Valle was saying this in another book of his called The Invisible College. He was more alarmed than I am, because he is of the tradition of French rationalism, and he was quite frightened to think. He didn't believe it was, I should say, the over-soul of mankind. He actually believed it was a politically-oriented group of human beings who had an advanced technology that was allowing them to do this. I reject that as total paranoia. And I am not as concerned with him to pull science's chestnuts from the fire. I think that science has betrayed human destiny to some degree, and that we are led to the brink of star flight, but we're also led to the brink of thermonuclear holocaust. But the conclusion, the political implication that I draw from all this, is that scientists will be swept away by the revelation of the flying saucer. They have always been the ones to be like the Apostle Thomas and want to put their hand into the wound. And if the wound is offered, meaning if the saucer comes and is seen by hundreds of millions of people, they would go over immediately. So the political insulation, the political conclusion to be drawn, is to preserve your freedom of thought by deconditioning yourself to the flying saucer religion before it happens. The most inspired scientists might be the most intrigued in this situation. Oh, they would go over first. But you see, a religion operates by a law of large numbers. As long as 80% of the people believe, it can transform a civilization. Therefore, if you're one of the 13% who don't believe, it's okay. So you always want to stand where the high water won't reach. But I think that the flying saucer experience is tremendously powerful and that it really is somehow linked to the psychedelic experience in a way that will not perhaps be understood for some time, but that the futuristic hyperdimensional world of these tryptamine hallucinogens and the persistent message from the unconscious in the form of these spinning idea complexes with the alien creatures inside are definitely expressions of the cutting edge of the evolution of consciousness. And it's very interesting. The voice has been silent, and a voice that guided and revealed has been a silent phenomenon for about 1700 years now in Western civilization. Before that, there was such a voice. I mean, it was called the Logos, and all philosophers strove to invoke it. And it was a voice which told you the truth, the self-evident truth. You had only to hear it, and you knew you were hearing the truth. And with the passing of the Aeon or something, the death of the pagan gods, this phenomenon faded out. However, it is still available through the mediation of these compounds. Now, how can you say these same words, how can you say them and have people feel like they want to invite you to dinner all of this doom and destruction of mankind and the toppling of science, especially when it is only right now, scientific people will understand what you're saying. Well, see, what I'm saying is, if we would intelligently examine these dimensions that the psychedelic drugs make available, we could, as it were, get in touch with the Oversoul and leave the era when man is disciplined by flying saucers and messiahs and progress is halted for millennia at a stretch just because people can't evolve their ethics and their technology at the same rate of speed. If we would have a dialogue with the Other, we would understand all these things and become in contact with the Tao of the ancestors. And this is what a shamanic civilization or a shamanic culture is. It's where certain people mediate the group racial experience that is available somehow deployed in mind space. Have you done a controlled experiment whereby you can bring a number of people to the College of Psilocybin or however it is that the message would come across? Have you done that? You mean in regard to triggering these UFO-type experiences? Yes, have you been able to... Well, only in the sense that we've ascertained by questionnaire that this is a very frequent motif. Perhaps the most frequently mentioned motif by people who take psilocybin recreationally is that it's about outer space and flying saucers and aliens, little green men. These are people who are taking 15...
 milligram type doses sufficient doses to elicit the full spectrum of the compound DMT is similar I mean it conveys you into an elf infested space where you know wild and zany things are going on it's as though there are continual a reality that is beyond this reality linguistically as well as spatial dimensionally so that you have to turn to a different language channel and then with this language pouring through your head you observe the other place the alternate reality and it is yes although this alternate reality is surprisingly far from most traditions about what alternative realities are like I mean it doesn't prepare you for its crackling electronic hyper-dimensional interstellar extraterrestrial saucer and mighty peculiar all this these highly polished and curved surfaces and machines and beings and language transformations and machines undergoing geometric transformations into beings and thoughts that condense as visible objects this is a theme that's very interesting to me is the the hyper-dimensional language a language that is fulfills philo judaeus quest for the more perfect logos philo said that a more perfect logos would be beheld rather than heard and this is what happens on DMT you hear a language which is very faint and far away and as it gets louder and louder you realize that without ever going over a quantized transition it is becoming a phenomenon not of the audio field but of the visual field and that it is in fact a fully evolving synesthesia hallucination of extremely realistic and utterly bizarre proportion I mean it's like an Arabian maelstrom of color and form and you somehow sense you know that you're in the Sistine Chapel you're at the cabal you're at Conor ac you're at all these places and but you know it's a hyper-dimensional in fundibulum if you will it's just a little place to dance and then you see you know that there is alien information this saw Syrian information is deployed everywhere in this other space and that the really astonishing thing is that human history and art reflect so little of it does you do see it you oh you see it but very very faintly when you see the real thing you just think my god I mean how did they keep the lid on this stuff this is raging right next door and you know the modern epistemological methods are just not up to dealing with an elf with chattering elf infested spaces I mean we have a word for those spaces we call it schizophrenia and slam the door but you know these these dimensions have been with us since 10,000 times longer than Freud and people just have to come to terms with them now it's because of an axe accidents of botany and history European man has been away from the psychedelic dimension since a while you know from the dimension of the tryptamines and psilocybin since perhaps the closure of the last glaciation so now we've accomplished marvelous things with technique and this and that but here it is you know many cultures around the world have kept the flame burning and the the disks which haunt the skies of indicate that the unconscious cannot be kept waiting forever these things are going to have to be dealt with and what it seems to me to point out is you know that the the imagination really is the ground of being and this is the great discovery which will change things it will be as if man had discovered fire for the second time the imagination is the the golden pathway to everywhere and when we cease to try and cross to the stars by crude rocket and engineering schemes and realize that deployed in the imagination is the entire universe instigating the launch well you have to do I think what the task of history can now be seen to be is what I call turning man inside out the body has to be interiorized and the soul has to be exterior eyes to create you know a golden disc a how by magic this matter of the flying saucer gives me an excuse to read a favorite poem of mine which answers your question about the future of man and the psychedelic experience he says once out of nature I shall never take my bodily form from any natural thing but such a form as Grecian goldsmiths make of hammered gold and gold enameling to keep a drowsy Emperor awake or set upon a golden bow to sing to lords and ladies of Byzantium of what is past or passing or to come and this is the idea of becoming you know a golden object after death yes this is sailing to Byzantium once once out of nature I shall never take my bodily form from any natural thing but such a form as Grecian goldsmiths make of hammered gold and gold enameling to keep a drowsy Emperor awake or set upon a golden bow to sing to lords and ladies of Byzantium of what is past or passing or to come in other words a golden bird a hyperdimensional object of Grecian gold enameling and the and this is what the flying saucer is it is the soul become object this is the secret of alchemy it's interesting you see that these great flowering of alchemy great last flowering of alchemy in the 16th century was coincident upon a level of understanding of natural chemistry approximately equal to our modern understanding of the role of life in the universe in other words mostly speculation so that what for us moves off into the sky as the flying saucer told to us to be possible by science but highly unlikely is like the 16th century minds relationship to be a philosopher's stone which was said to be highly unlikely but not impossible and so all this imaginative effort was exhausted in trying to produce the philosopher's stone and the focus was upon chemical hardware heating a limbic's watching swirling like gases and cloudy glass and now in the modern context it has gone into the sky the sky is the dimension of the other for 20th century man we feel we understand natural chemical processes there is no mystery there miners no longer encounter gnomes when they go into deep mines the way they did in the 15th and 16th century those gnomes have been stilled but the sky is still haunted this is where we are told it might be possible for it to come from and the C and C is obviously comap to the unconscious but the sky because our scientists tell us you know that somewhere out there just possibly it might be so but I think what's being missed is that the whole dimension of communication is being ruled inadmissible as evidence simply because it doesn't conform to the epistemological biases of the people who are asking the question and that is all these voices in the head that guide shaman that obsess lunatics that make poetry and in other words the muse the muse is real I mean if you have not experienced the muse that doesn't mean anything you may not have climbed Mount Everest either but I tell you out there in life their experiences which cause a need for new definitions and the one sort of another an intimation of the other well so imagine a compound which elicits this when you choose to use it well one could talk endlessly about this subject I suppose but until it's resolved all of man's epistemological dealings with reality will be haunted by this faint spookiness
 which can't be gotten rid of. So to start off this continuation of the discussion of Flying Saucers, I'll read Yeats again. O sages, standing in God's holy fire, as in the gold mosaic of a wall, come from the holy fire, perrn in a gyre, and be the singing masters of my soul, consume my heart away, stick with desire, and fasten to a dying animal, it knows not what it is, and gather me into the artifice of eternity. And it's that phrase, the artifice of eternity, which again invokes this strange mechanistic yet spiritualistic future into which the archetype of the Flying Saucer is calling people. You see, what's happening is man is becoming a transplanetary creature, and this is something which takes about 10,000 years from the first, you know, the earliest machines to leaving the planet. How do you know it's 10,000 years? Give or take 3,000 years away, but it is, as H.G. Wells said of history, it is a race between education and catastrophe, because these more and more destructive chemical and atomic processes are released as the species realizes its aspirations are alien to the ecology of the planet, and that it and the planet must part, and the transformation of man into a space-faring race is, on a biological scale, the great event that history is about. I mean, the coming of agriculture, the coming of urbanization, these things are peanuts compared to what is going to happen to this species, to these monkeys, as they leave the planet with their computers and their atomic physics and all this. I mean, you see, what is happening and why the psychedelic experience is so important is because information is loose on planet three. Some kind of very strange thing is going on. The world is not made of quarks or electromagnetic wave packets or the thoughts of God. The world is made of language, and language is replicating itself in DNA, which at its culmination is creating societies of civilized and intelligent beings, which possess languages, which possess cybernetics, which possess machines, which use languages. So that standing off a light year or two from this system, what seems to be happening, what is unusual about Earth, is that language literally has become alive. It has infested matter. It is replicating and defining and building itself, and it is in us. My voice speaking is a monkey's mouth, making little mouth noises that are carrying agreed upon meaning, and it is the meaning. Without the meaning, you only have little mouth noises. The meaning is a crude form of telepathy, because as you listen to my voice, my thoughts become your thoughts, and we compare them, and there is what's called communication, understanding. It's all about codes, and that's why I've said at times the flying saucer problem is like a grammatical problem. It's like a dangling participle in the fourth dimensional language, which makes reality, and that's why it's not reducible to any of these very simple-minded approaches. It is somehow embedded in the machinery of epistemic knowing itself. So we won't be able to find it if we go out in rocket ships? No, it is within. It is the soul of man. We won't be able to find it until we somehow come to terms with the hidden part, the unconscious, the collective unconscious, the overmind, the fact that there is a level of hierarchical control being exerted by the human species as a whole, that the destiny of man is not in the hands of governments and corporations and Communist Party apparatchiks. It is in the hands of a weirdly democratic, amoeboid-like, hyper-intelligent super-organism, which is called everybody, and as we come to terms with this, as we take our place embedded in the body of everybody and information flows more freely and the reality of this informational creature is seen more clearly, the fact that we are, it's an organism. We are having a symbiotic relationship with an organism made of information. And this is what psychedelics reinforces, I think, very strongly. It's in the psychedelic dimension that you finally can key in to the voice of the organism and say, hey, what's happening? And then it explains to you that things are not as you took them to be at all and that there is, in fact, layer and layer and layer upon interlocking meaning and that there's very little else other than that and that the imagination is the true ground of being and that there is a dimension parallel to time, outside of time, that is accessible to you as much as you want it to the degree that you can decondition yourself from the history-bound cognitive systems that have carried you to that point. This is why it's always been said of psychedelics that they were sociological catalysts. For the shaman, because the shaman brings the message to the tribe. Yes, but the tribe is a system set up to receive the message. We have a different way of doing it, which is that power elites in political control pass down state-approved philosophies, which are then applied, and this runs quite... The state as shaman. The state as shaman. The state as mediator of God's holy will, rather than a personal, a Protestant approach, if you will, a personal relationship to the overmind. And the flying saucer, what it represents, basically, is an instance of crisis between the individual and the overmind, where the overmind breaks through the oppressive screen thrown around it and comes to meet the individual, and it is like an interview with an angel or a demon. It's very, very laden with heavy psychological resonances for the person experiencing it. It is a numinous experience. It is... It's every moment of recognizable creation, then, falling into that category of the seepage from the overmind, where you get a synthesis of information which becomes your creative thought, your discussion. Yes, well, our theory of time basically mapped the idea that novelty was what you call this standing wave of eternity, and that it seeps into time at a variable rate, which can actually be mathematically described using the I Ching and other techniques. It's that sort of thing, yes. It's as though, you know, where the flying saucers come from is eternity. They don't come from the stars unless space and eternity encompasses the idea of being able to move instantly to and from the stars. But the flying saucers come from a dimension... You could almost say they come from beyond death. They come from a dimension somehow totally different from our own, but tied up with human psychology and human psyche in a way that is puzzling and alarming and reassuring. And shaman... It's very hard. This is a question to what degree non-participants in 20th century civilization perceive this, meaning people who take mushrooms but have nothing to do with 20th century society, whether they accept that always, since Paleolithic time, this super-futuristic dimension has been present, so that in any century people could have had this commerce with the end of time, with the far future, with the place where, as James Joyce said, man becomes dirigible, the place where we have bootstrapped ourselves to the point where we leave the planet, leave the monkey shell, leave all earthbound conceptions of ourselves behind and push off into the pure imagination. Scary. Scary. Gnostic, perhaps, as someone said. It sounds like megalomania to me, Martha. But, you know, the future always. I mean, how mad would the 20th century have sounded recited to anyone in the 19th? But what it comes down to is trying to have faith that there is a future.
 That man is good, because what's happening is that whatever man is, man is taking control of the definition of being human. So that through genetic engineering, through drug design, through probing of, you know, these weird psychedelic dimensions, through cybernetic interface, through activation of information, man is going to become a mirror of his deepest aspirations. And the question then becomes, what are man's deepest aspirations, you know? What will it be? Is it some kind of Mephistophelian nightmare? Is it the Nietzschean superman come back to haunt us in a way that makes the Third Reich look like a picnic? Or is it, you know, the element of care and control, the aesthetic element, the wish to escape into a universe that is in fact art? This is what it holds out, that man could become an inhabitant of his own imagination. Because with the technology for space, for building large habitats in space, it is possible to imagine the complete galaxy of science fiction created in a sphere less than 12 light hours in diameter, with the sun at the center of it, so that you would have 50 or 60,000 independent habitats pursuing social experiments of every sort, spatially independent, doing very long-term slow orbits from the sun and the outer planets, but informationally linked in a bubble of time, 12 light hours in diameter. And the current engineering thinking on building these large habitats is that right now, you could produce the Hawaiian environment up to 14 light hours from the sun, which is several light hours further out than Pluto. So that means that essentially the entire solar system has become habitable real estate. If we can simply transform the human imagination to realize that getting high is not a metaphor, getting high is what the whole ballgame is about, that it's true that the Earth is the cradle of mankind, but you don't remain in the cradle forever. And this is what beckons the... It's been, you know, only 25, 30, 50,000 years since our shamanic ancestors began to munch the mushrooms and glimpse the vision of man radiating out through the galaxy as a perfected, super-intelligent force for light. And this is the 15-round slugout leading to whether or not that happens or not. Timothy Leary maintains similar positions from a different... Similar but different, but right. He talks a lot about the DNA. I'm not... Well, it's the DNA on one level. The genetic information is stored in DNA. Where these visionary worlds, the information that allows them to be just shown to you like movies, hour after hour, where that information is stored is, I think, a very, very interesting question and certainly a challenge to molecular enthusiasts of molecular memory models. Well, now, is it not so that the muse is a sort of a catalyzing of the imagination? Precisely. It's an ecstasy. And the claim is made that these things can be attained various ways, that there are many different kinds of ecstasis. I think the peculiar, spacey, extraterrestrial dimension that these tryptamines convey you into is not the standard ecstasy of the mystics, or we would have more of a reflection of that in our literature. In fact, one of the things most puzzling to me is why the bizarre motifs of the DMT flash have not made their way into any culture anywhere, as far as I'm aware. Well, would that make either an image of people being fearful of these visions when they have them and so keeping them under cover, or an idea they might be going insane in some way? I mean, what is the way out of that? Well, I think the change is so radical and the implications so hard to digest that you're right. People either feel their own sanity is being threatened, or they recognize it as a challenge to the reality myth of their society, and so they just repress it. They have very little to do with it. It's very hard to contact these contradictory realities which throw into doubt everything you know about the reality you're inhabiting. I mean, what a strange, strange world it is if there are these alternative continue-I operating all around us filled with strange alien information floating around. And yet, why pose it in the future? It is so that this is what's going on. It's just then how much time you care to spend thinking about it. Well, these are science fiction theories, too. I mean, one comes across this smattering here and there, and you are saying that it's actual, and this is the way it is. This is your mission, basically. You're rapping. Yes, well, I'm not saying it's only the way it is, but I am certainly saying that these tryptamine drugs elucidate an experience that is extremely peculiar, that has more relationship with the UFO experience than with classical mystical experience or other hallucinogenic drugs, and that societal attitudes and other things have conspired to keep this under wraps. It has not been well looked at. And yet, basically because people who are interested in flying saucers are not interested in drugs, the great majority of people interested in flying saucers are hardware nuts and just for sure want to prove that it's a machine from Zeta Reticuli, you know, just nuts and bolts. And the psychological explanation is not welcome anywhere particularly. Meanwhile, the community of drug researchers feels they're laboring under enough of a stigma to not ally themselves with flying saucer people, which is just like adding an albatross to an anchor. So, you know, it's not a popular point of view. So since I'm outside of all of that, I can just say, you know, I read Illion on shamanism and, you know, I think these people did a fine job, but I don't catch the flavor from any of this orthodox anthropological reporting on shamanism that anybody has really come to grips with how strange the psychedelic experience is and that it poses problems not only for these so-called primitive people who use it and are being studied, it poses fundamentally equally deep problems for our society. We can no more assimilate the content of the psychedelic experience than can a villager in the New Guinea Highlanders or a Witoto in the Amazon. In fact, we have less of a basis for coming to terms with it. So our culture is in a very desperate crisis, a birth crisis, a terminal crisis. If we are not fully informed as to the nature of reality, we should correct that oversight. And this is my motivation. Well, I'm disappointed that we can't greet our other. Well, I guess you greet your other when you meet them in that dimension. Have you ever gone anywhere with another human to these places and actually been able to, say, have a parallel combined experience? Well, I think that happens certainly in taking ayahuasca with groups of people in the Amazon where the shaman is singing. You definitely have the feeling that you're all being carried through the same space and being shown the same things. And when you take psilocybin just with one other person, you're lying together, be mushroomed, as Gordon Lawson says. You have the feeling, you know, that you're just flowing there together. And sometimes you can even, one person can describe and then leave off and the other one can begin to describe and it's all flowing together. Yes, I am totally convinced that telepathy occurs on these drugs. I'm not sure how to go about making it a repeatable phenomenon, but it certainly happens. You see, psilocybin was made illegal just as an afterthought. In the panic when everything was being made illegal, it never had any hearing or it was examined by itself. It was just a hallucinogenic agent, therefore illegal. But for throwing a light...
 on the psyche for catapulting the imagination into these futuristic spaces, it needs to be looked at very closely. How do you see it being organized in order to educate people? Well we need to have, what's always been lacking in psychedelic research is an examination of the content of the experiences, so we need to give it to very intelligent people who are willing to work with it, not in a clinical setting, but in a setting where you ask the question how does it change people's lives when they can be involved in it, in a open non-stressed sort of environment. We found that going into the Amazon, which is not exactly a non-stress filled environment, that as we would go up these jungle rivers and inevitably contact small villages where the mushrooms would be available, that reality is transformed, reality truly is made of language and of linguistic structures which you hold unbeknownst to yourself in your mind and which under the influence of psilocybin just begin to dissolve and you begin to perceive right beyond the unspeakable, the contours of the unspeakable begin to emerge into your perception and you can't say much about the unspeakable and yet it can color everything you do, you live with it, it is the invoking of the other, the other has become the self, all these various forms of estrangement are healed, that's why it's so, you know, that the term alien has these many connotations. What's the next step? Well the next step is to confirm some of what I've said, to form a consensus among a group of researchers to then try and figure out a strategy, chemical or otherwise, to work on a problem like that, oh people like Frank Barr, Sasha Shulgin, my brother, John Lilly if he would behave himself, all these great people, you know, would have a great interest in this, this is the question that has not been dealt with, the botany has been dealt with, the taxonomy, the chemistry, how would I set it up? Well we need to explore this linguistic phenomenon somehow, specifically I think not by giving drugs to volunteers but by giving drugs to the researchers who are going to actually grapple with the problem, because all this talk that orbits around the psychedelic experience by scientists, how many of them have had a psychedelic experience? So you would do it with people who have already had or you would try to get un... I think the early approach with psychedelics, which was the Baconian approach, the logical approach, was the correct one, which is very intelligent, thoughtful people should take psychedelics and try and understand what's going on, not batteries of prisoners and not school children, but intelligent people and share their experiences, see I say it's too early for a science, what we need now are like the diaries of explorers, we need many diaries of many explorers so we can begin to get a feeling, the hit I get off of it is that it is very important for human culture, that it is no coincidence that this is coming to western man just as we acquire the technological capability to leave the planet, that the mushroom and the transformation of the human image by going into space are all things that are spun together, that nothing less is happening than the emergence of a new... Metamorphosis? Yes, a new human order, a telepathic, humane, universalist kind of human culture is emerging which will make everything which preceded it be the stone age. Will the overview, monad, oversoul, whatever, re-assume the personality knowledge that's gained within one lifetime and therefore that is what you'd see as UFO reincarnation or would you say that it's terminated at that terminal termination, in other words the personality which inhabits your form is, when that license is up, it re-forms itself and the form is what the personality is carried by. Well when consciousness is finally understood it means that the absence of consciousness will be understood, which means the study of consciousness leads inevitably to the study of death. Death is both a historical and individual phenomenon about which we as monkeys have great anxiety, but what the psychedelic experience seems to be pointing out is that actually the reductionist view of death has missed the point and that there is something more, it isn't simple extinction, that the universe does not build up such complex forms as ourselves without conserving them in some astonishing and surprising way that is perhaps related some way to the intuitions that we have from the psychedelic experience. The UFO comes from this murky region beyond the end of history, beyond the end of life, it is both supra-historical and supra-organic, it is uncanny, alien, it raises the hair on the back of your neck, it is both the apotheosis and the antithesis of the monkey's journey toward mind, it is like the mind revealing itself, this is what all religion is about, it is shockwaves given off by this event at the end of history, which we are now very close to and which psilocybin can help us to understand, because it conveys you into the place where it is happening constantly, where the millennium is a standing wave in eternity, not an anticipation, and so the mushroom stands at the end of history, it is an object that pulls all history toward itself, it is a causal force that operates to us backwards through time, it is why things happen the way they do, because everything is being pulled toward a nexus of transformation.

#005 The Voynich Manuscript (Mill Valley, April 1983) ~ Terence McKenna

Today I'm going to be discussing the Vonage manuscript, which is certainly one of the most interesting and has been called the most mysterious manuscript in the world. I will describe the physical manuscript, place it in a historical context, and then discuss my own ideas about the people who may have been its authors. First of all, the manuscript itself is written in a language of which no other example is known to exist. It is an alphabetic script, but of an alphabet variously reckoned to have from 19 to 28 letters, none of which bearing any relationship to any English or European letter system. The manuscript is small, seven by ten inches, but thick, nearly 170 pages, closely written in a free-running hand, copiously illustrated with bizarre line drawings that have been water-colored, drawings of plants, drawings of little naked ladies appearing to take showers in a strange system of plumbing, which has been variously identified as organs of the body or a primitive set of fountains, and astrological drawings, or what have been interpreted as astrological drawings. But more about all this later. First of all, the known facts of the manuscript are few. They are that it appears in 1586 at the court of Rudolf II of Bavaria, who was one of the most eccentric European monarchs of that or any other period. This is the same Frederick who collected dwarfs, who had a regiment of giants in his army. He was surrounded by astrologers. He was fascinated by games and codes and music. He was typical of the occult-oriented Protestant intellectual of this period. Anyway, to his court and among his courtiers came an unknown person who sold this manuscript to the king for 300 gold ducats, which translated into modern monetary units is about $14,000, which is an astonishing amount of money to have been paid for a manuscript at that time, and immediately signals that the emperor must have been highly impressed by this object, if he was willing to put out that kind of money for it. Accompanying the manuscript is a letter which states that it is a manuscript of the Englishman Roger Bacon, who flourished in the 13th century and who was a noted pre-Copernican astronomer. Now, at that time in Prague, which was where the court of the emperor was being held, the reputation of Roger Bacon was at a great height. The court was a hotbed of alchemy, and among all these alchemists, the reputation of the English monk Roger Bacon was held very high. This is because two years previously, the sale of the Vonage manuscript to the emperor being dated to 1586, two years previously, John Dee, the great English navigator, astrologer, magician, intelligence agent, occultist... Wait a minute, I still am back on Frederick. You mean, what was his relationship to all this? Could you develop him a little bit more? You say it was typical. Well, he epitomized the liberated northern European prince who was a patron of alchemy, gave money to all these printing presses that were printing all this alchemical literature. The Rosicrucian conspiracy, about which I will say more later, was fomenting at this very period, right under the surface, and Frederick patronized astrologers, magicians, alchemists. The reason John Dee had such a long stay at Frederick's court was because his companion, Edward Kelly, claimed to be able to perform the alchemical opus, and the king more or less placed them under house arrest and asked them, you know, to do this for him as a favor, since he had patronized them very heavily. And when they were unable to, Dee was able to talk his way out of it. Kelly had been the one who had made the major claims, and he was kept there and actually died in an effort to escape. He fell when the shale roofing on a high parapet of his castle slid way underneath his feet one moonlit night when he was trying to sneak out of the castle. But I anticipate my story because I think John Dee and Edward Kelly are probably, if they were not the, and I certainly think they were the people who sold the emperor the Vonage manuscript because of circumstantial evidence surrounding their interest in subjects similar to those being covered by the manuscript. And... Frederick, Frederick, is the same one, is that the Winter Summer Queen? King and Queen? Is that Frederick? No, this, we're talking about Rudolph II. He was succeeded by this guy, Frederick the Elector Palatine of Bohemia, who was also in this mold of a patron of Protestant alchemical aspirations in Central Europe. But anyway, the Vonage manuscript was accompanied by this letter stating that it was a Bacon manuscript, and the best astrologers and cryptographers in this court looked at it and could make nothing out of it. And it, and along with a great deal of other weird collections and material that Rudolph had gathered together from all over the world, was passed to various people at his death. And this book, because it contained botanical illustrations, passed to his botanist, who was a man named Marcisi, and he had it for 20 years. Then it passed to an unnamed party who had it for 20 years, and by this time we're up to the 1620s. And then it passed to Athanasius Kircher, who was one of the great polymaths of the mid-17th century. He was a Catholic intellectual, an alchemist, a person who experimented with artificial languages. And before he obtained the Vonage manuscript, we know of letters of his to various people asking about it. And in fact, he was sent small portions of it, reproduced, that he struggled over. But once he actually had the manuscript in his possession, his diaries are silent about it. And he says nothing, even though five years after he acquired it, he published a book called The Universal Study of Artificial Languages, that nowhere mentions the Vonage manuscript. Then some... Well, maybe, well, he called it something else. But there's no reference of any sort to anything that he possessed that was like that. That's right. And he decided to become a Jesuit in about 1660, and had to give away all of his worldly goods. So he gave his library to this Jesuit seminary south of Rome. And in among his books was the Vonage manuscript. And it sat on a shelf in the seminary from 1660, 1760, 1860, 1960, 220, 320 years, no, no, 300, 280 years, till Alfred Vonage, a New York book dealer, bought the entire library on a trip to Europe in 1912. And when he got it all back to New York and sorted through it, among all this easily catalogued late Renaissance Italian theological material was this peculiar book, more than peculiar, totally anomalous book. And it's very strange because the store of images, even as late as the period when we first hear of the Vonage manuscript in the 1580s, the store of images in the European mind was very limited. For instance, in speaking of the biological sections of the Vonage manuscript, here you get 120 drawings of plants, and yet there were only ten.
 or 15 herbals in circulation among the educated people of Europe of that time, and none of the Vonage images can be directly traced to any of these previously printed or circulated manuscripts. Likewise, the script itself, it has no antecedents and it spawned no imitators. Methods from the early 16th century onward in Europe were all derived from a book called the Stenographica of Johannes Trithemius, Bishop of Sponheim, who was an alchemist of Sponheim who wrote on the encipherment of secret messages. He had about three methods and no military or alchemical or religious or political code was composed by any other means throughout a period which lasted well into the 17th century. Yet the Vonage manuscript does not appear to have any relationship to the Trithemian codes. The code's derivative of Johannes Trithemius, Bishop of Sponheim, and- Is that a, I mean, is there something, do people research the Trithemian codes? Oh, the literature is voluminous on the Trithemian codes. Sure, there's a book by Walker called Spiritual and Demonic Magic from Ficino to Campanella that covers all of this very well, or Francis Yates' book The Rosicrucian Enlightenment, although they- Is it time to talk about Rosicrucians yet? Not quite yet. Okay. First of all, let's see. More about Dee and why I think that Dee is the obvious candidate for being the author or being the purveyor, if not the author, of the Vonage manuscript. Dee, first of all, Trithemius' book, the Stenographica, didn't circulate as a printed book until the 1580s, but it circulated in manuscript form from about 1530 onward. And when Dee visited the continent as a fairly young man, he records in his diary that he spent three days hand-copying the relevant chapters of a manuscript copy of the Stenographica that he was shown in Paris. So from very early in his intellectual life, he was in possession of the Trithemian code-making machinery. The next important event in his life, for my argument, and one of the most puzzling events in the whole history of science generally, is the afternoon in July of 1582, when at Mortlake in his study, John Dee was distracted by a brilliant light outside his window and stepped outside to receive from a creature he described as the angel Gabriel a polished lens of Lancasterian coal, which he described in his diary from thenceforward as the Shewstone. That's S-A-T-W, the Shewstone. And he was able by meditating on this stone to induce visions and dialogues with spirits. However, this ability seemed to fade in the months after he received the stone, until a strange personage came into his life in the spring of 1584, and this was Edward Kelly. Now Kelly was a much younger man than Dee, and Dee was married to a much younger woman, Dee, and Kelly was of the rascal class, and he in fact in one account is described as being earless, having had his ears removed for some petty crime in the provinces. Anyway, he arrived at Dee's place in Mortlake, pop-eyed and breathless, with a wild story about how he had fallen asleep in a ransacked tomb in a monastery in Wales, and when he had awakened, beneath him in the tomb had been a vial of red powder, which was the transformative elixir, and a book in an undecipherable language, which he called the Gospel of St. Dunstable, and said that he had been told around in the village that it was in ciphered Welsh. Now we actually hear no more in anybody's diaries or letters of the Gospel of St. Dunstable, however Arthur Dee, the son of John Dee, writing some thirty years later and reminiscing about his father, said that from the time he met Kelly, he spent a great deal of time trying to unravel a book covered all over with hieroglyphics, and perhaps this is the diary or the Gospel of St. Dunstable, and perhaps it is in fact the Vonage manuscript, and that these two things are the same thing. In any case, Kelly's entree to Dee was the undecipherable manuscript and the alchemical potion, and he quickly, from his conversations with Dee, determined the story about the show stone, and they set up a seance situation, and Kelly proved himself to be a very adept scryer of the stone. From the very first instance, he could describe vast theatrical undertakings, and speak all the parts of the characters, oh the show stone is in the British Museum, you can see it, there it sits, they still have it. Anyway, so then begins a period in Dee's diaries, which were published in 1658 by Marie Casabon as a true and faithful relation, a series of diary entries that span the next ten years, dozens, hundreds of spirit conversations, and the delivering unto Dee and Kelly of an angelologic language called Enochian, which was composed of non-English letters, but which computer analysis has recently shown has a curious grammatical relationship to English, but over 4,000 words are known in Enochian, and they were transmitted by the ghostly apparitions which Kelly channeled to Dee, and Dee, and some of the messages were theological in nature, many were political, and came to them as they travelled about Europe, including visiting the court of Rudolf II of Bavaria, our man who was sold the Vonage manuscript, and they were the people who were responsible for telling everyone what a great alchemist Roger Bacon, the English monk, had been. They laid the public relations groundwork for turning this manuscript at a high premium, I maintain. In any case, the several groups that have studied the Vonage manuscript have not looked at the amounts of encrypted material in John Dee's diaries, of which there's over 92 pages of strings of numbers and letters, which if it were found to be encoded in the same way that the Vonage material is encoded, that would definitely solve the problem of the authorship of the manuscript. The manuscript, which would have had to have been written in the 13th century, if it were by Roger Bacon, definitely shows all the physical signs of being a 16th century manuscript. I estimate it was done sometime around 1540, and Dee, this means Kelly, perhaps obtained it somewhere. Otherwise, it would have had to have been done later, as late as the early 1580s. If Dee actually wrote it, then it should be possible to determine this, because such large amounts of his encrypted, though still undeciphered, material is on record. And perhaps now would be the moment to talk about the Rosicrucians and show how they work into all this. Dee died an old and broken-hearted man in the run to the reign of James I in 1608, many years after the events.
 of the sale of the Vonage manuscript occurred. Why was he broken hearted? Well, he had been the court astronomer of Elizabeth and the friend of Sir Philip Sidney and the most educated man in England. When James came to power, James had a total horror of the whole magical side of the Elizabethan court. And he just dismissed this guy as a crank. He didn't want astrologers around him. He thought it was all creepy. He was a rationalist. His anti-Catholicism extended to a mistrust of the entire occult tradition generally. However, early in his flowering period, D had written a strange book called the Hieroglyphic Mona, the Monus Hieroglyphicum, which was 36 quasi-geometrical theorems, which actually hinted at some kind of mystical doctrine. And it's this utterly obscure book. In the early 1580s, it circulated in manuscript and was printed a few years later. In 1604 and again in 1608, the primary Rosicrucian documents were anonymously circulated in Europe. They were called the Fama and the Confessio. And they came out of nowhere. They were like broadsheets distributed in the middle of the night from street corners. And how could they do that? They said, we are a secret society. And who we are, you may not know. But if you're hip enough, you'll be contacted and asked to join. And people like Robert Flood, who was essentially the heir of the D tradition in English occultism and science, basically put out advertisements saying, if I ain't good enough, nobody's good enough. Why haven't you people contacted me? And the fact of the matter is that the Rosicrucians, meaning the authors of the Fama and the Confessio, never contacted anybody. And their claim was basically fraudulent. It was that the tomb of Christian Rosencrantz, who had lived in the 14th century, again, it's like this harking back to Roger Bacon, but instead harking back to a mythical personage two centuries previously, that the tomb of Christian Rosencrantz, a great knight who had gone on the last crusade, had been discovered. And that inside, there were all these alchemical books and with a quasi-political overtone, definitely favoring the bohemian court of Frederick the Elector Palatine. And that all this should be disseminated as gospel. It was a kind of alchemical Protestant revival. But curiously, these texts, the Fama and the Confessio, had many doctrinal similarities to D's hieroglyphic monad. So that it appears that D either was used as the model for the Rosicrucian conspiracy by its authors, persons unnamed. But I suspect the Czech alchemist Johann Valentin Andreje as probably being the person behind this. Because Andreje and Michael Meyer were people who definitely were old enough to have been involved in D's earlier visits and have then just been at their intellectual, at the peak of their intellectual powers, when the foment that you mentioned of the Winter Kingdom and the bringing of Frederick Elector and his wife to Prague as the king and queen, this episode, occurred. And in fact, I'll now relate the Vonage manuscript back to all of that. Previously, I mentioned that when Rudolf's king, his court, fell into disarray, the Vonage manuscript passed to his botanist. Well, what was happening was that the old emperor was dying at a great age and mad as a damn hatter, no question about it. Meanwhile, to the west, in Bohemia, the Frederick Elector, who is everything a Protestant alchemical prince could hope to be, young, brilliant, scheming, totally in charge of his lords, he weds Elizabeth, the daughter of James I of England. And he takes the king's decision to give him his daughter's hand in marriage as tacit approval for his plan to establish an alchemical kingdom, a Protestant alchemical kingdom in Central Europe. Actually, James, being the conservative that he was, had a far more Machiavellian purpose in wedding his daughter to Frederick the Elector because he also had it in his mind to wed one of his sons to a Spanish Catholic Habsburg princess and was trying to steer a neutral course when he realized that Frederick and Elizabeth had gone off to Bohemia to their court to be with Michael Meyer and Gerhard Dohrn and Johann Andr and all these guys and to patronize these alchemical presses and astrology and all this stuff. He was much alarmed. But by that time, it was too late to call it back. And he realized that Frederick the Elector was a wild card. When Rudolf finally did die, the princes of the Northern League gathered and chose his successor by secret ballot. Frederick won. And so in the winter, in the late fall of 1619, he and Elizabeth transferred their court to Prague and ruled for one winter until May of 1620. The Mayflower was landing in America the same year. But it had nothing to do with any of this. Then the Habsburgs, by that time, had mounted an army and were able to crush this thing. In a sense, it can be seen as the opening shot of the 30 Years' War, although the 30 years, well, it was the opening shot of the 30 Years' War. One of the young French soldiers in this Habsburg army laying siege to the city was the 19-year-old Ren Descartes, who would grow up to be the great proponent of modern French materialism. Michael Meyer, one of the last great synthesizers of the medieval alchemical vision, died in the siege of the city. And Frederick was killed. And Elizabeth fled. She lived in the Hague for many years. And so, see, in that confusion, the botanist of Rudolf held in his house somewhere in the suburbs of Prague the Vonage manuscript. And the 30 Years' War comes, modern times overtake Europe. And this thing drifts further and further from its roots. But my reconstruction of what must have happened is that in this period when Dee and Kelly were regaling Rudolf with tales of the alchemical prowess of Roger Bacon, that they ponied up this manuscript. Either they wrote it at that time, or they had it with them. If they had it with them, it's a far more interesting story. Because then perhaps they are not its authors. If they are its authors, then it merely reveals the grammatical deep structure of the deranged mind of an Elizabethan magician. And this would explain to some degree why it was outside the can of the CIA. But if they didn't write it, if they only had it in their possession, then the mystery continues, because where did they get it, and what was it? It is true that Dee was under the patronage of the Earl of Northumberland, who, when Henry VIII broke with Rome, all of the English monasteries were sacked by the lords who stuck with the king. And the Earl of Northumberland sacked monasteries that had large repositories of Bacon material. And Dee's library at Mortlake was known to have 53 Baconian manuscripts, of which only 41 have survived into modern times. There are 41? Baconian manuscripts. Where are they? Oh, they're at the Bodleian Library at Oxford in the British Museum. They have all this Dee material. Have you seen it? No, no. Oh, well, it would be fun to see it. The most interesting thing is this huge book called A True and Faithful Relation, which is the Day by Day.
 day seances with these spirits as D and Kelly move all over Europe. It's in that that it's recorded. Oh, and this is a piece of circumstantial evidence I almost left out, that in the very month that the Emperor paid the 300 gold ducats for the manuscript, D records in his diary that they received 320 gold ducats from a mysterious source. Now it is true that another angle on D's personality, and some biographers have taken the position that he didn't believe in magic at all, that he only posed as a screwball, and that actually he was an intelligence agent for the British Crown. He was visiting all these courts as an astrologer and a necromancer and an alchemist, and actually encrypting very succinct military and strategic and diplomatic information into these letters which he was sending home. And because he could cast the finest horoscope in Europe, he had an entree into all these people's scenes. And the truth lies somewhere in between. He was doing all of this. He was an agent for the British Crown, but he was also, you know, the finest flower of the medieval mind. He was used by Shakespeare as the model for Prospero and the Tempest, and is the model for Dr. Faustus in Christopher Marlowe's version of that classic spellbinder. What do you think about the Bacon-Shakespeare controversy? Does that fit into that at all? Well, it just shows, you know, how tenuous our grip is on what was going on in this time. I mean, besides whether Bacon wrote Shakespeare, then you have the problem of things like the Vonage manuscript. Bacon visited Dean. We're now talking about Francis Bacon, who was, who claimed, actually, Roger Bacon as a... As one of his? As one of his, yes. He did? Oh, yes. I didn't hear that. Oh, yes. That's great. And Philip Sidney and Francis Bacon visited John Dee at Mortlake one afternoon to see his library, because he had more books than anyone in England. And he is a very, very peculiar person. One of the most interesting things about the Vonage manuscript is the people whose careers have floundered, floundered on decipherments, where people have come forward with very bold claims. This guy, William Romain Newbury, Newbold, in the 1920s, who was a classic scholar, a medievalist, and by all accounts a very brilliant man, he announced that he had a complete decipherment of the Vonage manuscript, and said that what it involved was shorthand strokes, tiny strokes that were components of each letter in the Vonage script, and that by staring through a magnifying loop, you could magnify these characters and see that encoded into each one were the distorted remains of a Roman shorthand system that had been lost for 600 years. And he produced astonishing decipherments in which he definitely thought that it was a Roger Bacon manuscript. He decoded passages that dealt with student uprisings at Oxford at Christmastime 1292, when the riot between the Blackfriars and the something or other, just, you know, long, long decipherments. The problem with all of this was that no one else could extract the same sense using Professor Newbold's method. His method involved so many choices from pools of letters at every given point along the line that you could demonstrate that hundreds of messages could be extracted. And Professor Newbold died a broken man. He was disgraced, his career shattered, he had gone too far. The Vonage manuscript had claimed its first victim. The next person to advance a decipherment of the Vonage manuscript was Robert S. Brumbaugh, also of Yale University. And his decipherment is in some ways almost as puzzling as the encryption. He would have us believe that the Vonage manuscript says things like, liquid Syrian matter, liquid matter, plus Syrian Sicilian, plus Syrian salt, European Swedish Sicilian, plus Syrian, plus Russian Asian Sicilian salt, liquid liquid Asian Italian Syrian salt, liquid Sicilian Italian, plus Sicilian plus salt, et cetera, et cetera. Who is that again? Robert S. Brumbaugh of Yale. However, when his method was examined by other people attempting to reproduce the same plain text, they got nowhere, and he, it can't be taken seriously. How embarrassing. Another effort at decipherment, which is minor, perhaps, in comparison to the other two, but which provides an interesting anecdote, was a man named Strong, who was at San Diego, had claimed decipherment of certain of the labels of the illustrations of the Vonage manuscript. And when Paul Lee formed a working group to look into the Vonage manuscript, Dr. Strong was one of the people they wanted to interview, and my friend Ralph Abraham, who's a mathematician at Santa Cruz, had photostats of certain folios of the Vonage manuscript, and he sent very detailed letters to Dr. Strong with these folios as enclosures, and questions like, it is alleged that on folio 9b you translated a certain word as uterus, here is a photostat of folio 9b, please circle the word you translated, and this kind of thing. And Dr. Strong's secretary wrote Ralph back and said that he was very old, he was in his 90s, and he didn't feel he could compose a letter to address all these questions, but that if Ralph would come to San Diego, he would satisfy him completely. So that was a Thursday, Ralph made, got a reservation to fly down on the following Monday, and Sunday night the secretary called and said that Dr. Strong had died of a heart attack that evening. So the Vonage manuscript has bedeviled people's careers, and people who have claimed to understand it have died with the secret untransmitted to the rest of us. The intelligence community inside the United States government has spent a fair bit of time looking into it, simply because it is so unusual to come upon such a large amount of code from such an early period, and have it resist decipherment. I mean, it is just unheard of that a 16th century manuscript could not be deciphered by modern methods. The most interesting thing, in fact, published on the Vonage manuscript is a United States government technical information office publication called The Vonage Manuscript, An Elegant Enigma by Mary D'Imperio. And Mary D'Imperio must be a Renaissance PhD student somewhere who was hired by the government to basically collate everything known about the Vonage manuscript. And some interesting things are known. Eventually, I think, perhaps it will yield, although I'm not sure. For instance, computer analysis of the handwriting in it shows that two hands are involved. It was written by two people. Does this mean it was written by Dee and Kelly? Is this the hands that we should look for? Can we then, by comparing it to the handwriting of Dee and or Kelly, get a further feeling for their relationship to it? How do you get a hold of one of these? You have to write to the Office of Technical Information Services.
 in Springfield, Virginia, and ask for this particular document, whose number I'll have to hunt down. And does it cost? Oh, yes. It costs like $5 or $6. But it's a wealth of information on the whole context in which, I mean, it discusses all kinds of magical alphabets and early systems for encoding and hiding information. I think that what fascinated me about the Vonage manuscript is, above and beyond the historical puzzle, above and beyond how interesting it would be to know what it actually says, since someone went to such great effort to hide what it says, is just the idea of an unreadable book is a kind of Borgesian concept that is attractive. There must be somewhere an unreadable book. And perhaps this is it. And it's almost, I mean, if my analysis of it as being a product of Dee and Kelly has seemed too facile or facile, let me assure you that it is. And that not all the facts are covered by that theory. So much of Dee's writing is known that I think if he had been the author, it would be possible to find that out. Perhaps it is possible to find that out. And we're just premature in our wish for a resolution of it. But the unreadable book, the idea that the world is information, and the way by which we have cognizance of the world is by ordering all the information we come upon through relation to information that we already have accumulated. Patterns. Right. And an unreadable book in a non-English script with no dictionary attached is very puzzling, because we are like linguistic oysters. We secrete around it. We insist it into our metaphysic. But we don't know what it says, which always carries with it the possibility that it says something which would unhinge our conceptions of things, or that its real message is its unsayability. It simply is, it points to the otherness of the nature of information. It's what's called then a limit text, as Finnegan's Wake is a limit text, or a, or a. What does that term come from? It's a term of French structuralist criticism. Searching, the search for limit text. Well, certainly, the Vonage manuscript is the limit text of Western occultism. No one can read it. It is truly an occult book. It is like a literalizing of the mythical book in H.P. Lovecraft. Lovecraft's work, which is the Necronomicon, the writings of the mad Arab Alhazrad. And in fact, Colin Wilson, in his book, The Philosopher's Stone, connects the Vonage manuscript to the Necronomicon. The Shoestone, maybe, too? Perhaps the Shoestone. Well, the Philosopher's Stone was the Shoestone for D, for sure. It's very interesting, this business of the angelic language, Enochian, because, as I say, 4,000 words were delivered through the Shoestone to D. In the 1950s, there was a famous UFO case where a woman who claimed she was in contact with UFOs taught a colonel in the CIA how to be in contact with the same group of saucers. And he was demonstrating this ability for a group of his superiors in a room in the Pentagon. And he asked for a demonstration. He was communicating with them through automatic writing. And they said, go to the window and look out. And they all went to the window and looked out. And there was a brilliant golden disk of light cruising past the Pentagon. And they went berserk, called the nearby Air Force base to see what was on the scopes. The radar had just gone out in this sector, et cetera, et cetera. But what was, to tie it in with my point, these messages that this guy was getting on this Ouija board were signed, AFFA, A-F-F-A, which any scholar of Enochian can tell you is the Enochian word for nothingness, friends. So it's very interesting. Blake spoke with angels. He was the flower of English poetry at a certain point in time. Dee spoke with angels. He was the flower of English science and mechanics at a certain period. And perhaps the Vonage manuscript perhaps the Vonage manuscript is actually a manuscript that is not encrypted at all, but is simply a book in a non-human language. And therefore, there is no Rosetta Stone to it. It is just utterly beyond the pale, as they say in Ireland. Well, I think they should analyze the inks. That's one way. I really think that's a very important thing to do, even if it was written in the 1500s and not worth to say. But there would also be a way to locate its origin. That's right. I mean, there's all sorts of approaches. In the summation in this book by D'Imperio, where she suggests things that can be done, the first thing she suggests as being totally obvious is the physical book should be analyzed, because this has never been done. This would settle once and for all at least the century of its origin. And a number of things could be done. The libraries of the world should be searched for other examples of Vonage script. I mean, after all, are we really sure that there's no other extant example of this strange writing? Computer analysis. This has been part of the approach of the Santa Cruz group, is first of all settling on a standard alphabet for Vonage, and then cataloging every character and the number of times it occurs and in what combinations with other characters. And the graphics of it as well. Just the patterns that it forms, if they did a fully computer graphics on it, I bet that that would give a three-dimensional. Yes, well, none of the illustrations have ever been satisfactorily interpreted, like what are called the astrological illustrations are only nominally that. They could be anything. They just seem to have stars and circles in them. But otherwise, they're not particularly relatable to the sky. The so-called pharmaceutical section, which is all these little canisters and things and these strange little naked women bathing and all this plumbing, which is called the pharmaceutical or the anatomical section, could be anything. It could be an obscure form of central German hydrotherapy or actually the doodlings of a deranged imagination. When you only have one of something, it gets quite dicey placing it in the correct context in cultural history, especially since there was a lot of secrecy in this period, a lot of people running around, faking manuscripts in other people's names, using secret cover languages, communicating in secret codes, plotting secret societies. I mean, this was really the breakup of the medieval mind, just like today. All sorts of medieval mentalities. Yes, well, this hope to establish an alchemical political union in central Europe was in the context of what followed the 30 years and modern times can just be seen as one of those places where the river of history chose not to run. It was a path not taken. But had things turned out differently, had the King of England been behind it wholeheartedly, had certain things been different, it might have all unraveled somewhat differently. So what do you want to do about it? About the Vonage manuscript? Yeah. Oh, I would like to think about it as an object of thought. I think it's very interesting. It's like thinking about your DNA. One thing I have thought to do about it is there are now what's called psychic archaeologists, which when all else fails, you bring in these people. And by various means, esoteric and exoteric, they attempt to divine what story resides in an object. Since the Vonage manuscript is at the Benecke Rare Bookroom at Yale, I'm sure any serious scholar would be allowed to look at it and spend time with it.
 never seen it. I would like to see it. The book which Robert Brumbaugh edited called The Most Mysterious Manuscript, which is now out of date in that his conclusions cannot be taken seriously. Nevertheless, it reproduces a number of the folios from the manuscript, and when you see them, just the pure weirdness of it all is conveyed quite readily. I mean, it is unearthly. It does not fit in the context of late medieval alchemical manuscripts or late medieval any other kind of manuscripts. Does it compare other writings in there? It doesn't, but D'Imperio's book does. She has many magical alphabets, many different forms of shorthand and specialized note-keeping scripts that were current in Europe throughout the Middle Ages, and none of them look particularly like Vonage script. Ralph Abraham made the suggestion that Vonage script had some relation to early Brahmanic number systems. He thought perhaps it was a string of numbers that would then have to be decoded from that and then further unencrypted to get sense out of. One thing that might be said about it is perhaps modern people simply overrate the sophistication of our code-breaking machinery. Perhaps there are simple ways of encoding material that simply have not occurred to the CIA, and so when the Vonage text is finally broken, it will be trivial the way in which it was encrypted. Trivial, but unexpected in some way. For instance, Ralph made the suggestion to me that grids, where you have a grid which has holes in it when laid over a page, shows you the parts of the text which are to be dealt with and all the rest of it is noise. If the grid changes from page to page and is completely irrational in the way it changes, then no computer program imaginable could separate the plain text from the noise because it isn't a recursive formula, it's an ever-changing variable that could be just whim, the whim of how you made the grids. And this would preclude, I think, any machine- oriented effort to decipher it. It would mean that it didn't want to be deciphered. It would mean that the author decided to do it that way, and because no one could have, at that time, deciphered it either. That's right. It would not be written down. Oh, this grid method is known long enough that this may be the key, so that may mean that somewhere there either exist these grids or there exist the instructions for building them, and then out of that you could extract a portion of Vonage text, which would quickly yield to modern methods of decipherment, because it is the only part of the message which is really sensed. This is a standard method of hiding a message is to embed it in great amounts of garbled material, hours of garbled material. Like an alchemist. Yes. That's what really alchemy is. It would have appealed to the alchemical imagination of Dee or Kelly or any of their educated occult contemporaries to use this kind of method. So it's very, it's very interesting. What would you say the difference between an alchemist and a shaman is? Well, they have different spheres into which they project themselves. They have different models of the universe. The medieval alchemist had a discontinuous and fleeting, but nevertheless somehow ontologically founded, conception of an inside and an outside. He knew that his ontology was naive, but he accepted the existence of an exterior world on some terms. Then it was to be manipulated through the alchemical process. Shaman actually translate into another dimension. They are true trance ecstatics, and in that sense it probably, probably represents a higher resolution of that intent. But Myrceliad has traced back alchemists into smithing, into early metallurgy and metalworking, which was always thought to be a magical task. And it runs together then with alchemy. Alchemy and shamanism are united in the figure of the primitive blacksmith, because he is both protochemist and shaman. So at that point in time it's fused, and that's why there is so much stress on metal in primitive shamanism, on hanging metal off of your body, on smelting metal. It was like magic to turn metal red-hot and to change it into weapons and figures and that sort of thing. So the Bonage manuscript would be really by an alchemist? Well, we don't know what it says. We only know the traditions in which we find it embedded. We assume it's by an alchemist. It could be... But anybody that would do that sort of a thing at that time would be labeled alchemist? Yes, it comes out of an alchemical mentality. It's very mysterious. It's quite an enigma.

Alien Luv ~ 1983 (Terence McKenna)

The idea of sexual relationships between human beings and non-human beings is a persistent sub-theme through much of mythology. In the Old Testament it says, and the gods found the daughters of man fair, and the Persepone myth is a good example of this, where the platonic Demo-Urgus of the underworld ensnared Persepone. Oh, and another example that should be mentioned are the Incubi and Succubi of medieval mythology. These were male and female spirits which were thought to come to people in the night and have intercourse with them, and it was very bad, very bad for health, and in general wasting away diseases were often explained by invoking this phenomenon. But what I want to talk about is something similar but with a uniquely modern cast, which is the flying saucer phenomenon has begun to take on this new character, this erotic dimension. There's no hint of this kind of thing in the earthly literature of flying saucers, meaning from 1947 through 1960, but now it seems to be a rising theme, and I would like to talk about it, because though it is the darling of a screwball fringe when it's in this form, I think that it represents an interesting developing folkway that we can learn from. So what about it? It's only in the last 60 years since the discovery of DNA and the discovery of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram so that we began to get an idea of the true size of the universe that the notion of extraterrestrial life and extraterrestrial intelligence could even be coherently framed. Before that time, man's relationships with transhuman intelligences tended to be demonic or angelic and to fall into those categories of beings which occupied hierarchical levels above and below us in the structure of being, but all basically terrestrial, or in some sense terrestrial. But science, by explicating the non-uniqueness of biology and giving us an idea of what's going on in the galaxy and beyond, has validated the notion that life is ubiquitous and that intelligence is a property which accompanies life and is also, therefore, probably very common in the universe. This legitimizes fantasy about the existence of extraterrestrial life so that what is happening in the last half of the 20th century is that the mythological outlines of what the alien must be are being cast now. The expectations of people living now who have been given the rudimentary knowledge of biology and astronomy that allows the thing to be conceived, their expectations are casting the extraterrestrial archetype into a mold that it will hold until it is disconfirmed or confirmed by true extraterrestrial contact, whatever that means. In other words, a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. We now know enough to fantasize realistically about what the alien would be like and I think that this then sets up polarities in the collective psyche that previously we have only seen at the level of the individual and this is why I called the lecture Alien Love because love is a unique expression of individualism but what the developing archetype of the other, if you will, the extraterrestrial because for us the away from the earth is the other what the developing archetype of the other means and our fascination with it is that collectively for the first time or perhaps for the first time in a long time we are beginning to yearn, that's what it's all about and I think that what's happening in religion on a very broad scale is that the previous concerns of salvation and redemption are shifting into the background for the great majority of people and what is driving religious feeling is a wish for contact, a relationship to the other and the alien then falls into place in that role, the alien fulfills it and I believe that if religion survives into the long centuries of the future this is what will be its compelling concern an attempt to define a collective relationship with the other that assuages our yearning and our feeling of being cast out, as Heidegger says cast into matter, alone in the universe in other words, it's as though by passing into the psychedelic phase the space-faring phase, the entire species is passing into adolescence and becoming aware of the possibility of something like a sexual completion with an other, with a species which is not human an idea which had previously been masked for us in our collective prepubescence where we were self-absorbed, Freudians call it polymorphically perverse meaning occupied in the exploration of the ego and the body and so this culture crisis, which I've talked about in many different ways but never this way, has this dimension too it has this psychological erotic drive for a connection with the other and to sum up what I've said about religion it's as though the Father-God notion were being replaced by the pure alien notion and the pure alien is like the tetramorph it is androgynous, hermaphroditic, transhuman it is all these things which the unconscious chooses to project upon it until we have more information to define what it might actually be for itself, you see eventually this contact will occur and this is, you know, we are now in the pubescent stage of forming the yearning forming an image of the thing desired and this image of the thing desired will eventually cause that thing to come to be in other words, man's cultural direction is being touched by this notion of alien love and it comes, I think, through the rebirth of the use of plant hallucinogens because they seem to be the carriers of this pervasive intellect which speaks and which can present itself in this particular way the appetite for this fusion is what is propelling the energy toward an apocalyptic transformation it isn't recognized as that in the culture yet but it is this fascination with the other which propels us forward but it's not an inevitability in other words, it's like having the potential to fall in love but then, you know, if there is no one to love this potential can turn to rancor and disillusionment so what it is, is that we've embarked on the exploration of a unique historical moment which is that for the first time, the issue of the other is being fully constellated and dealt with by the species the question is being asked, are we alone? and though we now focus on that question
 we need to think beyond that to what if we are not alone, then what becomes the next imperative question? It is obviously the exploration of this relationship, and it has this erotic character because we will discover as soon as communication is even remotely possible that we are obsessed with it because it becomes very important to know whether or not we are alone. It becomes very important to open a dialogue if any dialogue is possible. And I think that at this stage in what's happening, the facts are secondary to the description of what's going on. In other words, this could slip away from us. It is a potential which has swum near to the historical continuum, and if it is invoked by enough people, it will become a fact, but it could also slip away. We could harden. There are fascist hyper-techno futures that we could sail toward and realize that would eliminate this possibility of opening to the other. And I'm always trying to define for myself what the historical importance of psychedelics is because we know, of course, that shaman have used these things for millennia and have plumbed these depths as individuals, but still I always had this intuition that there was a historical impact of some sort, and I think this is it, that actually we are positioned to attempt something which has never been attempted before, which is to open a dialogue as a collectivity with the other, and to use that synergy to bootstrap ourselves to some kind of new cultural level. And I think in the blurb which preceded this talk in the folio, I mentioned that this potential was hidden now in the psyche. There isn't a great deal of talk about it. It only arises at this totally screwball, folkloric level. None of the managerial or analytical elements in the society are looking at this at the moment, but I think it is forming and crystallizing and I think that the peculiar animate quality of psilocybin that I've discussed in other talks is probably a major synergy for this. I mentioned on the radio today that contact with extraterrestrials and voices in the head and Logos-like phenomena is not part of the general mythology of LSD. I mean, certain exceedingly intense individuals on a combination of heroin, methadrine, and LSD may have achieved this intermittently, but it is not something which is attached to the notion of what LSD does to you. With psilocybin, on the other hand, it definitely is. I mean, our survey showed that as people's doses increased, their susceptibility to this phenomenon increased markedly and so I think the issue of contact with the extraterrestrial for large numbers of people has been broached by that phenomenon and it's very puzzling to people because our expectations are always that we are cells in a vast societal animal and that the news of anything truly important will be conveyed electronically to us and that if flying saucers land, the President and the Secretary General of the United Nations and to somebody will convey the word to us, but the challenge of the psychedelics is to realize that the potential for the hyper-collectivity, the alien, the alchemical wedding with the alien, though it is a collective phenomenon, it's inherently tribal and it will happen as an experience for individuals at the individual level and this is what's happening. People are in the confines of their own apartments becoming magellans of the interior world and reaching out to this alien thing and beginning to map it and bring back stories that can only be compared to the kind of stories that the chroniclers of the new world brought back to Spain at the close of the 15th century. I mean, cities of gold, insect gods, spaceships of vast wisdom, tremendous wealth, endless wastelands. We're just beginning to map this area and many times I've spoken of it as a landscape and many times I've spoken of it as a confidant, a kind of Girl Friday who tells you things, but another facet of it is this erotic element and there's no other word for it because it inspires this feeling of opening and merging that that is, in our cultural conditioning, what we associate it with. To distinguish it from ordinary love, I always think of it as L-U-V. It's the kind of love that you get with the alien and what it means is that the relationship to the alien can be thought of as modeled on the micro-relationships to the other that each of us form through relating to other people. In other words, if you're familiar with the Jungian notion of the conjunctio, this is where two people get together and try to function as alchemical mirrors for each other and tantra and Taoist sexual practices, all these things have to do with fusing into dyads and what is happening in that situation is that each party to the fact is taking on the quality of the other. In a non-erotic context, that's called becoming what you behold and we are uniquely susceptible to becoming what we behold. This is why we have always been led into the future by the nose, by our imaginations because we dream and then we realize the dreams. The, this fact about our monkeyhood when put in combination with a relationship with an alien mind means that we will become what we behold and this is in fact, I think, what is happening. The curious intimations of the deepening contact with the other make it seem probable to me that we are in love but we're just slowly realizing it because we've never been in love before so that articulating this kind of stuff, one person saying it to another and discussing it is actually an attempt to conjure this into being, to call it forth, to make this supposition become fact because all facts are, are the suppositions of very large numbers of people and this archetype now hangs in the balance. There is much tension about the flying saucer aside from the erotic connotation because the flying saucer represents a tremendous challenge to science, perhaps the ultimate challenge to it. It may be as confounding to science as the resurrection of Christ was to Greek empiricism and Roman imperialism. In other words, the flying saucer is definitely an agent of cultural change. On the level of the machine, it bids distress for our most cherished, explanatory schema. But on the level of the alien as flesh, it presents a much more basic and fundamental challenge because the erotic complex is being redefined by this phenomenon. I was talking to someone.
 and we came up with the idea that we were talking about how many people take LSD and how it's very difficult to get precise numbers on this matter because people don't talk about it, but that in the last 15 years sexual researchers have had a field day because people are very, very willing to discuss their bizarre sexual peculiarities and to just pour out their hearts to people with clipboards and we know now a great deal about human sexuality and we were suggesting that the taboo is moving. The taboo is moving so that as we become more sexually polymorphic and open with each other and less identifying our ego with our sexuality, we become very private and constrained and secretive and religious and all these things about our psychic experiences. The drug experiences particularly, and he was suggesting this to me as an explanation for why it is so hard to get people to describe their drug experiences, why the literature is so barren of any richness of description when the experience is the culmination of richness and intricacy and beauty. Though I don't take this idea as gospel, I think it's very interesting. We are much more open with each other sexually and in our process of examining our libidinal consciences in the confines of our own minds, but the taboo now has moved to this interior world where we have this adolescent sensitivity about this developing relationship to the other. Now, all these things are elements which are going together to make the emerging human future and it is a human future that is proceeding exponentially. It is not a mere linear propagation of the present because these peculiar factors are impinging on it, things like psychedelic drugs, the ability to erect large structures in deep space, the presence of the alien logos in the mind of the collectivity, the presence of the cybernetic network that is developing. All these things are going toward a release of man into his imagination and so far the cultural engineers have not stressed enough that the erotic element be included in the engineering of the human future. Eric Yonch was a good friend of mine and many of you may know his books. He and I used to argue about space colonies and whether this was a viable way to go and he sensed this problem by saying to me, but Terence, where will they get nature spirits? How will they induce nature spirits to inhabit the space colonies? Well, another way of saying it, a way that brings it much more close to home, is how can Eros be invoked in space and carried with us and expanded? I tried to do my part to help this process along by spreading the rumor that the Soviet lady cosmonauts sustained five 40-minute orgasms in weightlessness and that they were sitting on this information because they didn't want to panic, but maybe it's true. I'll say it's true. It's true. When the monkeys find out what sex in zero gravity is like, I won't have to make hard pitches like this one. Anywho, so let me sum this up by saying that there's an emerging zeitgeist of hyperspace which has to do, and I call it a zeitgeist of hyperspace because as man leaves the earth, another dimension is added and that crude metaphor will reverberate at every cultural level because we will begin to live in a hyperdimensional collectivity not only of earth and space, but of information, of past and future, of conscious and unconscious by navigating between these places on psychedelic drugs and eventually the technological culmination of this is the projection of human consciousness into whatever form it seeks to take and the zeitgeist of hyperspace which is emerging, which is heavily freighted with technology and cybernetics and all these things, requires that it be consciously tuned to an erotic ideal and, as I said before, it's important to articulate the presence of this erotic ideal of the other early in order that this process not go sour or slip away from us and leave us with one of the barren futures that some kind of very flat behaviorist or Marxist analysis of history could leave us with. This is a chance, an opportunity, a chance to fall in love with the other and get married and go off to the stars, but it's only an opportunity and it is not evolutionarily necessary. In other words, if we only live with the ideal of the other and never find and fuse with the other, we will still evolve along whatever pathways lie ahead of us, but if the opportunity is seized, if we take seriously the experience of the last ten millennia and complete the modern program of realizing the ideals of the archaic, recognizing that what the 20th century really is about is an effort to establish and perfect the ideals of late Paleolithic shamanism, then we will have integrity in relating to this opportunity and we will have a very peculiar historical adventure, which I cheer for. Thank you very much. And I'll answer questions if anybody dares to ask a question. Yes. A large number of people taking paleontologists as new verge LSD versus the dearth of powerful artistic or literary creations coming from that. Ellen and I were talking about this at some length over the last month and one suggestion that we had, if you might want to comment on it, is that the intensity and depth and beauty of the experience often far outweighs the technical capability in terms of literature, painting, sculpture. The individual who has it could not that be a great contribution as opposed to the unwillingness of someone to discuss them, the inability for someone to be able to relate anything but a mere shadow of what he or she has seen or experienced? Well, yes. I mean, I think you're right that if you do your best you can only convey a mere shadow of what's going on. But I don't see people doing their best. I see them doing very little at all. That's the problem. The other thing is once we were to set to ourselves the task of describing the psychedelic experience, it would become more accessible because if we each gave our best metaphor and then we all used that metaphor and used it to produce a better metaphor, we would eventually retool our language so that we were able to handle these modalities. And this will happen historically. The psychedelic experience is a new object for Western languages. It will be very interesting to see what English, the language of Milton Chaucer and Shakespeare, will be able to do with the psychedelic experience. I mean, my God, in William Blake you get the feeling that English could do staggering things with the psychedelic experience. Places in Andrew Marvell. But all this remains to be done. There are certain... The relationship of the psychedelic experience to literature is a whole field unto itself. I mean, there are certain moments where great literature has...
 has passed near it. I don't know how many of you have read Flaubert's Temptation of Saint Anthony, but that touches very, I mean, he got it, he got it very, very succinctly. Huisman's, J.K. Huisman's Against the Grain. It's an amazing novel about an esthete, desasson, a man who is so sensitized to perception that he can't leave his apartments. He has his walls covered in felt and he keeps the lights very low. He collects Red Dawn when nobody had ever heard of Red Dawn. He buys turtles and puts jewels, has jewels affixed to their backs and then he sits in a half-lit room and smokes hashish and watches the turtles crawl around on his Persian rugs. Let's all go home and do this! It's called Against the Grain by J.K. Huisman. Oh, if you've never read Huisman, H-U-Y-S-M-A-N-S, he's a... It's called Against Nature. Sometimes it's called Against Nature. There are several translations, yeah. If you read French, it's called Avabou. Yes. Are there any other questions? Shirley? Shirley, you're challenged by this. Yes? I'm curious about, in Entering the World or Letting in more of the world's imaginations and if the chemical induction is so necessary. I've been growing for a vision through dream and it seems like it's possible, or in sleep, you see a lot of things in time form and that there's kind of a slow movement where that seems synchronous with life or that I can almost feel like that while awake or hear it or have it go on in my mind and be guided. I wonder if that's the kind of connection you see? Well, I think, yes. I think dreaming and states of psychedelic intoxication, possibly the after-death state, possibly the post-apocalypse state for the collectivity, all these things are related to each other and certainly dreaming is the natural access point because it's a part of your experience every day. But these places are what's called state-bounded. It's very hard to bring back information. You have to have a natural inclination or a technique and it doesn't matter whether you're using drugs or yoga or dream manipulation. But yes, it's just a matter of exploring the mind by whatever means work. But I've seen studies which show that in the deepest part of sleep is the high point of the production of endogenous hallucinogens in the human brain like DMT and that sort of thing. And nevertheless, it's only in the wildest dreams which are necessarily the most difficult to recover that you pass into places which are like these DMT and psilocybin intoxications. Yoga makes the claim that it can deliver you into these spaces. I spent some time looking into that, not a lot of time, but people have different proclivities for these altered states of consciousness. I don't have, it's very hard to move me off the baseline of consciousness. I am very stolid and set in the here and now and so drugs work better than anything for me. I scoured India and I could not convince myself that it wasn't a shell game of some sort or that it was as real as the states manipulated by the various schools of new age psychotherapy and that sort of thing. But in the Amazon and in other places where the use of plant hallucinogens is understood and used, you are conveyed into worlds that are appallingly different from ordinary reality and extremely vivid. The vividness of them cannot be stressed enough. I mean, they are more real than real. And that's something which you sense intuitively. They establish an ontological priority. They are more real than real. And once you get that under your belt and let it rattle around in your mind, then the compasses of your life begin to spin and you realize that you're not looking in on it, it's looking in on you. And this is a tremendous challenge to the intellectual structures that have carried us so far the last thousand years. I mean, we can do tricks with atoms. There's no question about that except that these tricks immolate us. But higher order structure, molecules and leave alone organelles and that kind of thing are just intellectual terror incognito to us. We have no notion of how these things work and what is going on. And yet it is from those levels that the constituent modalities of reality are being laid down. Now, what do I mean by that? I mean that you can understand all this fine nuclear chemistry about the atom. And where does it put you if your intellectual, the story you tell yourself about how the world works can't explain to you how forming the wish to close your open hand into a fist makes it happen. And this is the true status of present science. They cannot offer so much as a clue how that happens. They know how muscles contract and ATP, all that they know. It's the initiating phenomenon. What is it that decides I will close my hand and it happens? There is, you know, they know as much about that, perhaps less than Western philosophy knew in the 12th century. And it is at that level, at the level of the body experienced and the mind experienced that we operate. I mean, you can live in the social and religious system of Hellenistic Greece and offer sacrifice to Demeter. Or you can live in 20th century America and watch the evening news. But you should have no faith that you're getting the true story on reality. These are just historical contexts that can only be transcended by the acquisition of gnosis, of knowledge that is experienced as true. And it's hard for people to even realize what I might be talking about because they believe that something like logical consistency or ability to be reduced to mathematical formalism is how you judge the efficacy of an idea. But actually, this is what has led us into this extremely alienated state. It's that we haven't demanded that the stories we tell ourselves about how the world works confirm our direct experience of how it works. And the psychedelic drugs, by focusing attention on the mind-body-brain interaction, are reframing these questions. And not a moment too soon because the cybernetic and technical capabilities of the society demand that this all be looked at very clearly or we're just going to sail right off the moral edge of things into the abyss. Well, that wanders from the alien love theme. But as I said, all these factors are going to make up the adumbration of the present that will become and be the future. Yeah, Ellen. Could you comment further on the interaction between the various sexual yogas and the psychedelic experience or intoxication as tools, I mean as an effect, potential tools for approaching the kind of extraterrestrial eroticism you're talking about? Well, certainly, I mean, you have all kinds of things going on. When people are having sexual intercourse, the physiological state is very hyped up. There's production of pheromones all this sort of thing. How far into this can one go? It's interesting, well, this far. One thing I've noticed on psilocybin is that skin contact is very, very, very important
 there is like a disappearance of the normal resistance across a membrane, especially if there is perspiration, so that two people with large amounts of skin in contact, when both people are loaded on psilocybin, the flow of ions or, you know, the electrophoretic transfer of salts or whatever the proper incantation is, you become one thing. And I'm convinced enough of this, that I would suggest to Masters and Johnson or whoever has license to do these kind of things, that this be tried, that if you're serious about validating telepathy, here is a very simple experiment, and I think that you'd be amazed. Taoist sexual practices lay a lot of stress on the generation of unusual substances in the genitals or in the perspiration, which is a theme absent from Indian yoga, but a theme picked up in Amazonian shamanism, where there is a lot of stuff about magical forms of perspiration, magical objects that are generated out of the body or put into the body of other people. It's interesting, it's not clear to what degree the... In the matter of Taoist alchemy, it appears that there was an erotic control language, so that much of what appears to be prescriptions for sexual practices are actually recipes for plant combinations, because words which were used with sexual connotations were also code words for plants and fungi. The association in the Taoist mind between fungi and feminine genitalia and all this stuff, it all runs together. The words and the concepts are the same, and this is a prevailing motif of the so-called esoteric schools of Chinese eroticism, meaning the schools where nothing actually appears to be going on, but the presence of certain plants and certain objects in a composition indicate that it actually is an erotic cryptogram of some sort. Yeah? Could it be seen perhaps that the natural psychedelics that exist on the planet are a kind of love offering from the other to us, which we, when we accept them as it were, we can develop that bond? In other words, something which is being sought by the other. Yes, well I... At this conference in Washington, I spoke about extraterrestrial contact in relationship to the psilocybe mushrooms. I've mentioned before that psilocin, which is what psilocybin quickly becomes as it enters your metabolism, is... Psilocin is 4-hydroxyanandimethyltryptamine. It is the only four-substituted indole to occur in all of organic nature. Now let this rattle around in your mind for a moment. It is the only four-substituted indole known to exist on Earth, and it happens to be this psychedelic drug which occurs in about 81 species of fungi, most of which are native to the New World. What I was suggesting to that group of people was that its uniqueness is a chemical signature, saying, you know, I am artificial, I have come from outside. And I was suggesting that it was a gene, an artificial gene, carried perhaps by a space-borne virus, or something which had been brought artificially to this planet, and that this gene had insinuated itself into the genome of these mushrooms. It's an unresolved problem in botany why there is such a tremendous concentration of plant hallucinogens in the New World, in North and South America. Africa, which is the continent where man is generally thought to have arisen and gone through his formative cultural development, is the poorest of all continents in hallucinogens. The New World is very, very rich, and this is why shamanism is so, narcotic, as it's called, hallucinogenic shamanism, is so highly developed in the New World. So yes, it seems to me that the fact that the gene, or that the psilocybin compound is chemically unique, the fact that it induces this Logos-like experience makes me at least entertain the possibility that this is an extraterrestrial contact, that extraterrestrial contact, as we have previously conceived it, which is that someone from far away would come in ships and get in touch with us, it doesn't work like that. What it is, is that as human history goes forward, we develop the linguistic discrimination to be able to recognize the extraterrestrials that are already insinuated into the planetary environment around us, some of which may have been here millions and millions of years. In other words, space is not an impermeable barrier to life, but there is slow seepage, there is genetic material that is transferred across space and time over vast distances, and I, operationally, I deal with the mushroom that way. It may well be an adumbration or some slice of the human collectivity, but since it presents itself as the other, I treat it as the other, and I treat with it as the other. And sometimes, as I said, it's my colleague, and sometimes it's my Jewish godfather, and sometimes it is my, what Jung called, the soror mystica, or what my brother Dennis called, the soror mistress. It is, you know, has this erotic connotation to it, but this is all part of the picture, and it all has to do with changing our preconceptions of things, so that an idea such as that a mushroom could be an intelligent extraterrestrial, which is preposterous by one point of view, can be seen to move from possible to highly probable by simply shifting your language around, and the evidence has been left untouched. The evidence is equally friendly to either point of view because the evidence is so personal. Science is totally impersonal. The empirical evidence that the mushroom is an extraterrestrial is zilch, but the subjective experience of those who have formed a relationship with it is overwhelmingly slanted in the other direction, and this is, you know, here we have then ideas and competition, the evolution of points of view through time, and that's why I say the opportunity should not be missed to open a cultural dialogue about this phenomenon with ourselves, among ourselves, and with the thing itself. It's a unique opportunity. Yes? I'm going to ask you to speculate just for a minute. I never speculate. Just try. Given that we're led by our imaginations into the future and that facts are indeed suppositions that are agreed on by a large group of people, how many people do you suppose it would take to agree on these facts, and what sort of rituals or ceremonies would be required to align everybody's thinking to agree on specific elements of the physical landscape to the point where it would be possible to retool the language to accommodate the new visions, and to take advantage of this opportunity to perfect the Paleolithic ideals of shamanism? Well, I don't know. Maybe there's a critical 5% or something like that. I mean, political revolutions, they say, are made by 10%. I think the change, what I put it down to, is the emanation of these psilocybe mushrooms throughout society that, you know,
 last eight years we have undergone like a second Neolithic revolution. The first Neolithic revolution was the invention of agriculture. The second Neolithic revolution was the invention of home fungus cultivation and suddenly you know 20 or 30 species of Psilocybin-containing mushrooms which were previously rarely met forest endemics or the coprophytic kinds of mushrooms the ones which grew on the dung of cattle. These things which all of which had restricted endemic zones of occupation have become ubiquitous. Stropharyocubensis the most ubiquitous in the natural state was before the invention of human cultivation a rare tropical mushroom. Now it grows from Nome to Tierra del Fuego in every attic basement and garage around and the strategy by which the mushroom conquers society is exactly the same strategy by which the mycelium spreads across a Petri dish it just moves out in all directions and my brother and I wrote the book Psilocybin the Magic Mushroom Growers Guide in 1975 it sold a hundred thousand copies we had stiff competition from Bob Harris he wrote a book called Growing Magic Mushrooms or something Jonathan Ott wrote a book Gary Mencer Stephen Pollock spore companies sprang up it's very hard to imagine how many people are doing this for the delight of my mycological crowd last weekend I posed the question if the mycelium spreads through society the way it spreads through bulk substrate or a Petri dish then what phenomenon can we expect in society when the mushroom fruits meaning when it goes through the ontological transformation where it ceases to manifest its homogenous high full network form and instead manifests its form which is devoted to sunbathing and sex thrills which is the mushroom which emerges above the ground so I'm I'm very bullish on psilocybin I think that it is that the word drug is inappropriate that the model of hallucinogenic drugs that we have inherited from our experience with LSD is completely inadequate that the fact that LSD is our model hallucinogen for doctors and researchers and that kind of thing is only a historical accident the fact that it was discovered first or characterized first in the laboratory and then millions and millions and millions of people took it because of course it's active in the 100 gamma range where psilocybin is active at the 15 milligram range so millions and millions of people were able to be touched by LSD I don't think that mass drug-taking is a good idea but I think that we must have a deputized minority a shamanic professional class if you will whose job is to bring ideas out of the deep black water and show them off to the rest of us and perform for our culture some of the cultural functions that shaman perform in pre literate cultures I like the plant hallucinogens I think that that a true symbiosis is happening there you see LSD was a creature of the laboratory it was not a creature of the laboratory it was a thing of the laboratory psilocybin is a creature of the forests and fields it when man propagates it when we spread it when it stones us there is this reciprocal relationship transfer of energy and information this is a true symbiosis both parties are gaining nobody is giving up anything and you know we have domesticated many plants and animals that's not big news but you know this is not a bean or an apple it isn't even a cat or a dog it may be smarter than we are and so the implications of this relationship have to be couched in in at least human terms and that's why the erotic metaphor is not inappropriate if psychedelic substances were legal and this were a class and say introductory psychedelic appreciation what do you suppose our first assignment would be from me well I guess I would have you plant some seeds and read some history and when you had read the history and grown the seeds and I don't know what they would be there would be morning glories or the spores of mushrooms or something when you had assimilated the history and cared for the plant and brought it to its fullest self-expression of fruitful production of alkaloids why then you would be at the threshold of your career and I would adjourn the class but but not to be facetious or to follow up that point history is very important to doing well in the psychedelic experience at least psilocybin because it shows you movies of history it sees us as historical creatures it has this above-everything kind of point of view where it isn't dealing with you in the slice of the moment it's dealing with the phenomenon of the monkeys over the last millennium and that's how it sees us and you can assimilate some of its viewpoint by having a real feeling for you know the ancestors all the people who are dead the people who went before I mean it's really a strange law what a long strange trip it's been you know I mean from from the cave paintings at Altamira to the doorway of the starship and now we stand on that threshold hand in hand with this strange new partner not expected in the nature of historical change comes the unexpected and this is what we have on our hands the problem of the other the need for the other the presence of the other the nature of the other these are the questions and the concerns that will drive the next order of human becoming you don't preclude at all the possibility that the hearing for the other is just really the hearing for the self that the other really is an undisclosed self that the thermotic urges to know no I don't in fact I said at the beginning the the nature of the archetype is being set now in the light of scientific knowledge about how it's possible that there is other intelligence in the universe and it's a combination of our need for connection and science giving its blessing to this form of expressing that need that is creating the phenomenon of the potential for alien love but you see we don't know what the self is I mean you know if you if you take seriously Buddhism which says that everything is Bodhi mind well then that means that there could be extraterrestrials and if it's true that everything is Bodhi mind they are an aspect of the self the word self is as great a mystery as the word other there's just a polarity between two mysteries and then you know the thin thin myths that are spun to hold you there without freaking out the myths of science and religion and the horoscopes and the shamanizing all these things but a polarity between the mystery of the self and the mystery of the other and a mystery is not to be confused with an unsolved problem a mystery is by its nature mysterious it will not collapse into solution and we're unfamiliar with that kind of thing we think that if there's a mystery why you just hire a bunch of people whatever kind of people and they get it
 straightened out and issue a report and that's that. But this only works for trivia. And what's important, our hearts, our souls, our hopes, our expectations are completely mysterious to us. And so how must they appear then to the other if it truly is other? So we need to cultivate a sense of mystery. The mystery is not only in the other, it is in us. And this reverberates again with what I said about how we become what we behold. History is turning suddenly mysterious here in the post-quantum physics, post-modern phase. This was not expected. The 19th century, the early 20th century, they didn't realize this is what they were pointed into. Although some people, the pataphysicians, the surrealists, they saw what was coming. But here we are. Yeah. The discussion earlier of how the mushroom was likely seeded from afar reminded me of the direct path to spermia, the idea that life itself was seeded. Yeah. Both sent down here together. I should have mentioned that theory because it's the best support I have for the idea I was putting forth. What's being mentioned is a theory, the panspermia theory, which was formulated by Souropanampurama and Crick, who was the discoverer with James Watson, Francis Crick, of DNA. And they are proposing a much more radical theory than what I put forth, at least in terms of relative to biology. They're saying that prebiotic molecules arise in the greatest numbers in deep space, not on the surfaces of planets, that planets are only secondarily, and at a late stage in the development of complex polymers and prebiotic compounds, do the surfaces of planets become where the action is. I am not saying that. What I'm harking back to is, I'm sure you all know the old adage that we each are made of stars, that the atoms in your body were once cooked in the hearts of stars. This is true, but an unremarked accompanying necessity of that fact would be that there must therefore be some atoms in your body which were not cooked in the hearts of stars, but which were part of the planets, which circled around those stars before they exploded. My point being that not all of this material that is circulated in the galaxy has been through something as violent as nuclear burning at the heart of a star. When stars go nova, their planets are blown to pieces, and biotic material that has evolved on those planets is injected into the general cosmic soup of circulating material. And that is more my idea of what the spore strategy may have originally been about. It was forms of life which evolved on very, in very harsh environments where a spore could survive, but seeds, for instance, couldn't. And we were talking at this mushroom conference this weekend about how if you want, if you have some mushroom spores and you want to preserve them, the way you do it is you create an atmosphere as much like that of deep space as possible. Ideal is total vacuum at minus 60 degrees centigrade. And then they'll last virtually forever. At any lower temperature, they will slowly degrade. So I envision mushrooms or spore-bearing life forms antecedent to mushrooms evolving in very harsh environments where then, actually, space was a medium through which they could migrate. And of course, this happens over very long periods of time. But if you think that the galaxy is roughly 100,000 light years from edge to edge, if something were moving only 1,100th the speed of light, which, now, that's not a tremendous speed that presents problems to any advanced technology. If something were moving 1,100th the speed of light, it could cross the galaxy in 10 million years. Well, there's life on this planet a billion point eight years old. That's 1,800 times longer than 10 million years. So looking at the galaxy on those timescales, you see that the percolation of spores between the stars is a perfectly viable strategy for biology. And we know that the casing of spores is a very electron-dense material. It's as electron-dense as many metals. Global currents form, generating sub-superconducting or superconducting states on the surface that make them even more resistant to radiation. And we know that spores are light enough that Brownian motion and convection and this sort of thing, definitely, they percolate even into the high stratosphere. And there, highly energetic events are going on at a fairly regular pace, sufficient that we can calculate that a certain number of these, small for each spore shedding, but large in the total context of fungi on the planet, these spores percolate right out of the gravitational field and then are subject to larger forces. So it's radical to suggest this, but it's only because the empirical evidence is thin. The logic of the case is well-founded. What is on much shakier ground, of course, is the idea that the mushroom is an intelligent life form. And that's my special obsession and province, and most people say I'm welcome to it. But it's very interesting, in a book called Perspectives on Scientific Communication with Extraterrestrials or something like that, anyway, a book by Poonam Purama, there's an article by R.N. Bracewell, who's an astrophysicist, talking about the logic of searches for intelligent life. And he concludes that no matter what kind of life form you are, no matter what kind of technology you have, if you are seriously going to search space by physically sending probes from one star to another, then the only strategy which would work would be what's called a von Neumann machine, meaning a machine which can reproduce itself so that the machine leaves its parent star and then, or four of these machines are sent out in four opposed directions from a parent star. At a certain distance from the parent star, each machine replicates, then you have eight machines, and at double that distance, they replicate again, and you have 16 machines, and so on, the notion being that only by this process of replication can you cover all bets, and that probably then what you do is you send a message which says, we are searching the galaxy by an exhaustive means, and if you read this message, please call the following toll-free number, and we will then initiate contact, and only by this means could you hope to have contact with all the worlds in the galaxy, and this makes it very important to understand what the message is that the mushroom conveys. The Mandaeans, who were an obscure religious cult of Gnostics in the Middle East of very long survivability, have this very interesting idea. They believe that at the end of time, what they call the secret Adam will come to Earth, and the secret Adam is a messiah-like figure, but what he does is he builds a machine which then transmits all the souls back to their hidden source in the All-Father outside of the machinery of cosmic fate, and this notion of the messiah building a machine is very interesting. It's conceivable that if there is an extraterrestrial message in our environment, it is a message to build some kind of device so that a less tenuous form of communication can be opened up, and Bracewell makes this case. To him, this is just inherent.
 the logic of the situation, and I suppose it would be an interesting branch of logic, the logic and the protocols of extraterrestrial contact. What can we define about contact that is so basic that whatever form of life and intelligence you were, you would have to flow along those creodes? This is probably an undeveloped field at this point, but it certainly could be done. It's like alternative physics. We need alternative theories of social contact and social contract making in the event that we meet an extraterrestrial. This is a fertile theme in science fiction, the logic of contact, how to make it without giving away too much and yet not get anything out of it. It's poker, but the stakes are very high. We're talking about the survivability, viability, and evolutionary fates of species, if not entire planets. You talked about the collapse of the distinction between inner and outer space. How would you go into that more? The distinction of inner and outer space is rooted in association of the self with the body, and I think as the self moves out into the ocean of electronic consciousness, and also as we explore the erotic dimensions with the others that I've indicated tonight, this identification between self and body will become secondary in a way that identification between king and self has become rather secondary over the last 5,000 years. I mean, we don't even have a king. We seem to manage without one. It's conceivable we could manage without a body as well. These are just ways that loyalty is transferred toward forms of cultural concrescence validated by local languages. Anything else? Yes? It seems that you talk as if humanity is on a threshold of a new age, and that maybe through contact the aliens will help us cross this threshold. Maybe you might want to elaborate more. Well, I definitely think that there is a process that has been long underway that has been gaining momentum since its very beginning. It's the process which formed the planet, which called life out of the ocean, which called higher animals out of lower animals, which called humanity out of the primates, and which called history out of tribal, sacral, timeless existence. And what it is leading toward is some kind of apocalyptic, transformative flowing together of everything that is beyond our language system. It's the umbilicus of being. It's where it's all tied together, and therefore it's very hard to describe it. I think that all of our science and our religion and our history, these are patterns thrown across a limited set of dimensions by the hyper-dimensional fact of a certain object at the end of history toward which we are moving, to which we are being drawn. I think that most things about man are mysterious, and that what is happening to us is mysterious. The sudden explosive development of the neocortex is entirely out of context with what we know about the rates of evolution that go on in other species and previously went on in the primates. Now it's been very fashionable in the past, I don't know, 50 years or something, to think that it's all very humdrum somehow, and yet this is just everybody, every ideological system that has been granted the status of being the official view of reality has always proclaimed that it had everything nailed down but the last five percent, and their best people were working on that. But I think that we are, for all that we know, we know practically nothing, and that though I am not in any sense of the, well not in any sense, but in most senses I am not religious, I think that religious thinking about the transformation of the world is more on the right track than the notion that the laws of physics will always be what they are, the laws of biology will always be what they are, and we're all just going to go along and things are going to get worse and worse or better and better, but that there are no surprises. I think that we do not see what's going on. One of the reasons I like to make this argument about the mushroom and the extraterrestrial and all that is just to show people that maybe this isn't true, but look how you can see things differently. If things can be seen that differently, how many ways can they be seen differently? And to try and get people to realize, to stop waiting for the president to enlighten you. In other words, stop waiting for history and the stream of historical events to make it clear to you. You have to take seriously the notion that understanding the universe is your responsibility, because the only understanding of the universe that will be useful to you is your understanding. It doesn't do you any good to know that somewhere in some computer there are tensor equations which perfectly model or perfectly don't model something that's going on, and we have all tended to give away ourselves to official ideologies and to say, well, I may not understand, but someone understands. But the fact of the matter is only your own understanding is any good to you. I mean, because it's you that you're going to live with, and it's you that you're going to die with. And as the song says, you know, the last dance you do, you do alone, and you want to be in good company then. So it's very important to cultivate this aspect of yourself and to be with it. I don't know what the transformation means, this rushing together of everything, but I think without knowing what it means, you can convince yourself that it's there, it's just nobody has chronicled it, or no official agency has pointed out that things are developing faster and faster, things are growing together faster and faster, connections are being formed faster and faster, the evolution of language, technology, understanding of the self, these things are just spinning into a tizzy, and it will not go away. It will go through, it will break through to something else, and we may have to shed the present human guiding image, we may have to shed the monkey body, we have to be open, very open. What is happening on this planet, if you stand off by a nearby star and look at it, is there is information loose on this planet, a swarm, a gene swarm of replicating information, which has become so complexified that it now generates swarms of epigenetic information, meaning books, architectures, mythologies, all of these things, and information is liberating itself, and what is that, and what does that mean? You know, the Gnostics had the idea that God's body had been scattered through the universe as light, and that the purpose, the salvational imperative was to gather the light together, and get it out of this universe, and transmit it back to the modality of its essence, and that's a good metaphor for what is going on, but no one understands it, I think, but we can understand aspects of it. We are lagging, there is enough visible that we should be saying more about what's happening, and I don't hear that being said, maybe it's being said privately, maybe it's a taboo subject, perhaps the attraction for some people of these lectures is that they somehow violate taboos, that impossible things are being said.
 Maybe, maybe not, but impossible things need to be said because impossible things are happening and you don't want to miss it. Thank you very much. It was a pleasure to talk to you about this. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did.

Cauldron Chemistry Interview, 1985 (Terence McKenna)

In this house, we being Lou DeBurbin and Elizabeth, me, and we're sitting in this incredible collection of books in a very beautiful home in a wonderful, magical spot near, is it Marin County? No, it's Sonoma. This is Sonoma County. West of Sonoma County, far from Sonoma. Talking. So I will tape the conversation and if Terrence has special information that he'd like you all, you aware people of the United States to have, he'll let us have it. And we will mention the fact that he has a new book which is on cassette and he'll talk some about that too and where it can be ordered. That's all. That be like a good introduction to everybody? Yeah, that sounds fine. Okay, here we go. Okay. Well, maybe I'll just start off asking a couple of questions that have been on my mind. Fascination with the combination of DMT and harming and things of this nature. And what I'm interested in is those places or plants or animals or ways in which people can come close to or have historically come close to or have had access to DMT. And I remember you briefly mentioned a process whereby, by combining rabbit lungs, say, and pig intestines, you could actually in some way create or obtain DMT. And I was wondering if you could go into a little more detail on how that could be done. Well, I'm not sure pig intestines is the second ingredient. But what you need is a source of tryptophan, which is a common amino acid. And then rabbit lung, which is replete with an o-methylation enzyme, o-methyltransferase. And it will o-methylate the tryptamine into a psychoactive, which is just an example of what's called cauldron chemistry, where you use animal enzymes to do chemical transformations. Another one that has been discussed in the literature is using the decarboxylation activity of enzymes in raw milk to decarboxylate the poison in Amanita muscaria, which is muscarine, to the hallucinogen, which is muscamole. In Wasson's book on soma, he discusses the fact that the soma, whatever it was, was whipped together with milk curd and allowed to stand. And this was one of the major arguments for identifying it as Amanita muscaria, because that would make it much more palatable and less toxic. But who knows how many of these things exist, you know, because we have lost the lore of special uses for animal organs and that sort of thing, and that really is shamanic lore that we've lost touch with. Are you familiar with the newt, the California newt, and the importance of the tetrodotoxin and the fugu? Perhaps maybe you could go a little bit into the fish, if you want, and of course the newt in that sense. Before we get into that much of a technical thing, I wonder if it's possible to tell people why we think this is important. Can we just discuss that for a minute? I mean, why is it important to track down these natural sources of the psychedelic experience? Well, it's important because the psychedelic experience is important in and of itself, and it's important to involve ourselves with these biological materials, because the things which come out of the laboratory, of which there's a potentially unlimited number, are not receiving the kind of animal and human testing that they would if they were above ground drugs. So safety is really a concern of mine, and what I've been telling people recently is that until there is animal and human data on a drug, it should probably be looked at very carefully. If you look at naturally occurring hallucinogens with a tradition of human use, you don't have to worry about that, because, for instance, the mushrooms, we know that they were used in the mountains of Mexico for at least two millennia. Ditto the morning glories in Mexico. So in the absence of good scientific data about the effects of artificial hallucinogens, it's good to stick to the natural ones. And it also, in a more interesting and kind of more philosophical case, can be made if you accept the theory of Rupert Sheldrake of morphogenetic fields, because you have to realize then that the morphogenetic field of a drug like psilocybin, which has been in living systems perhaps 120 million years, been used by human beings perhaps 20,000 years, what is its morphogenetic field going to be like contrasted to a drug made six weeks ago in the laboratory? It's the depth of these things. You see, the new drugs are empty. They haven't taken enough people yet to fill up. But what you see with something like psilocybin or morning glory seeds or something like that is the accumulation of the experience of all the people who ever took these things. I mean, that's why you're reaching back into a human family spread out over millennia and actually being those shaman. You are those shaman, or you are participating in the personality of the over-shaman, if you wish. So that is the basis for an ontological distinction between artificial and naturally occurring drugs of all types, but especially hallucinogens, which have this intellectual content. Gee, that's the best explanation of a case for organic psychedelics that I've heard. Stephen said a long time ago, when we were on the caravan, 12 years ago, I guess, that we should stop using the LSD because so many people had used it in such paranoid circumstances that the vibrational rate was no longer such that you could know that you were going to have an ecstatic trip. Well, that is an intuitive understanding of exactly what Sheldrake was saying. The reason I've been thinking about this recently was because I was at a conference recently on psychedelics, a closed conference mostly for health care professionals, and there was a lot of talk about ADAM, MDMA, and then someone asked the question, what is the LD50 of it? LD50 is a fairly unpleasant concept, which is necessary to understand in pharmacology. The LD50 is the dose at which half the mice die, or half the dogs die, and all drugs are tested this way, and what you want with a drug is a drug where the LD50 is hundreds or thousands of times more than the effective dose. For instance, the effective dose of psilocybin is about 20 milligrams. The LD50 for psilocybin is 375 milligrams per kilogram, so we're talking 30,000 milligrams for a 145 pound human being. The problem that emerged with ADAM was that the LD50 is very close to the effective dose, and that no human trials have ever been done. The effective dose of ADAM is considered to be somewhere between 75 and 150 milligrams. The LD50 is considered to be 500 milligrams, based on studies of dogs. Now let me explain this so it doesn't sound too alarmist. Dogs are not good creatures to extrapolate to human beings. Analysis has shown that mice are much better, that the LD50 in mice will be more generally close to the LD50 in primates, including man, than data on dogs or cats. Nevertheless, in the absence of any human data whatsoever about ADAM, it's very unnerving that the LD50 is so close to the effective dose. So immediately, the institution which was holding this conference, which probably would prefer to be anonymous, pledged $1,000 to study the problem. Someone at the conference pledged $1,000, and tests will begin with sophisticated human volunteers.
 who will clear their systems and then take it and then have massive blood work done. This is the short-term human data will come out of that. The long-term human data is beyond the financial capability of the underground. But you see, this is interesting, so let me take a moment because it's important for people. There's only one drug in the world which is safe, strangely enough. In other words, there's only one drug in the world that no one knows how much it takes to kill you, and that drug is LSD-25. And this is a very fortunate thing, because people in the 1960s got into the habit, I remember Tim Leary said, when in doubt, double the dose. Completely reasonable advice for LSD. The problem is, LSD is the only drug with such a benign profile, so that we can't carry the dose estimation habits that we formed on LSD into these new amphetamines like MDA, MDMA, ADAM, Ecstasy, because it's well known among chemists that the cyclicized amphetamines are toxic. Mescaline is the most toxic of all natural hallucinogens. MDMA is four times as toxic as mescaline. So at this conference, a great deal of thought was put into, there were people there who were so enthusiastic about the effects of ADAM, the psychological effects, that they felt that this was the greatest chance the underground had ever had to actually obtain a quasi-legal or legal status for a hallucinogen. The problem is, this toxicological data makes it clear that it could never be legalized, and in fact, if ADAM cured the common cold, it would not be legalized if it has a LD50 profile only four times the effective dose. So I had up until this time not formulated, I had had a preference for botanical drugs, but I had not formulated what is the real difference, you know, and when you would argue with people that synthetics and organic drugs were different, they could eventually argue you to the point where you just couldn't defend it, because they seemed to be the same. But with Sheldrake, the notion of Sheldrake, that the morphogenetic field attends the compound, and the absence mainly of human data, I mean, we went through a ketamine phase with moderate amounts of human data, although now I see in Science News last week there's fear that it depresses the immune system. In fact, it does depress the immune system, while leaving aside its use in the underground, the worst thing an anesthetic can do is depress your immune system, because you're going to have surgery, and come out of surgery and be in a surgical recovery ward. You want your immune system to just be fully revved up. Now we have this problem apparently with ADAM, and in fact, there has been one reported death at a dose of 390 milligrams. Thanks for that information, it's really important to get it out, because there's so much enthusiasm about ADAM. Well, I told Tom these things, and he was floored. I'm sure he was. And we had a long talk about it, and it's, we have to take responsibility, you know, the underground, because we can't have another drug scandal would finish psychedelic research above and underground for the rest of this century. So it's a problem with the people's courage. I mean, let's contrast two drugs for a minute. Here we have psilocybin, effective at the 20 milligram dose, and you would have to take, as I said, probably close to two and a half dried pounds of the mushrooms that are on sale in the Bay Area to approach the fatal dose. Nevertheless, if you take 40 milligrams of psilocybin, you will swear that you are at death's door, you know, you will swear that you are looking at the path to the bardo. And, but with ADAM, it's totally the feeling, the aura is that it's completely benign, even as you approach a fantastically dangerous dose. It is amazing, because ADAM puts you in this state of love, even for itself. That's what happens. And you know, and I discussed this with Lou coming down, it seems to me that my experience with ADAM is that I'm so much in love, in a state of love that it's dangerous in other ways, because I accept, I accept things that I shouldn't really accept, that aren't the best for me. So it's some, boy, it's fascinating. So I've heard of people who essentially, to become courageous enough to get really stoned, take ADAM ahead of it. In other words, people say, well, I take ADAM and then I take LSD an hour and a half later, or I take psilocybin an hour and a half later. Well, I think that these are, you know, in the absence of human data, this is all very chancy stuff. We have to realize that LSD was a God-sent, special, miraculous case. I mean, it was amazing to pharmacologists that it was so non-toxic. The CIA gave an elephant six grams and, you know, it laid down for three days, and then it got up and shook its head and wandered off to look for something to eat. So, but we must be more responsible. So I've actually formulated it down to a little test, which is, if you are interested in the spiritual path utilizing hallucinogens, then the hallucinogen you use should be able to answer yes to two of the following three questions. Does it have a history of shamanic usage? Does it occur in the tissue of a plant or animal? And now let me think. Does it bear a similarity to compounds that occur in our own brains? Well, we're just discovering a lot of those compounds, so we don't know them all yet. Well, but as I said, you have to be able to answer yes to two of three. So then... So LSD would actually pass two of those, as far as the hallucinogen mysteries, where it was utilized for thousands of years, and it occurs in the brain. Well, and also it occurs in morning glories and ergotized rye, and yes. And if we do that, I don't think we'll get into trouble. And I also want to make this clear. We will not be denying ourselves any dimension of importance. In other words, I notice people have the attitude that you have to take all drugs to know what's going on. And what I find is that you find out far more about what's going on if you take a few drugs at progressively more and more heroic doses. I also, and I invite experimenters to try this, at the moment there is so much attention directed toward Adam that the morphogenetic field of Adam is so strong that if you will take psilocybin, you can request it to masquerade as Adam, and it will immediately turn over and be Adam for you. And I don't think Adam can do the same trick going the other way. Well, do you mind if I talk? I mean, please do join the conversation. I know you want to get more technical, but I want to save it a little bit. Well, that's all I want to say. Well, I've got some questions. Oh, God, what did you just say about psilocybin? Oh, that it would turn over. I want, could you run down for people, if I understand you correctly, Terrence, I understand you believe, or the reality that the spore of psilocybin mushrooms are alien intelligence, or intelligence from other areas of the galaxy or universe. Would you tell us a little about that? Well, it's not a belief of mine, it's just a case, a case I make, because I want to stretch the imaginations of evolutionary biologists and everybody else who's looking at the living kingdom. And it is certainly...
 true that spores appear to be genetically engineered for spaceflight. They are a color, deep purple, I'm now talking about the spores of Staphylocubensis, they're a deep purple color which absorbs UV, that's the color you would paint a spaceship. They survive best in conditions most like those of space, in other words high vacuum, low temperature. They are small enough that they could, through Brownian motion and then the formation of global electrical currents forming on their surfaces high up in the atmosphere, actually percolate out into outer space much the way, for instance, much of the atmosphere of Mars has drifted away over millions of years. And I think that the experience, well that's basically a case for that they are a biological entity able to migrate between the stars by, through utilizing convective flow and light pressure and that sort of thing. A more radical proposition based on the experience of Psilocybin is that that organism is intelligent or that it is able to transfer information, that it is somehow a form of life which is able to communicate with us when it is locating in our nervous systems, that it comes to its fullest flower in the organism of a higher animal and that in that state it is, there is the potential for an I-Thou exchange and phenomenologically there's no question about this, that there is this I-Thou exchange with Psilocybin, but people can say, you know, you can, a psychologist can say well it's an autonomous psychic component that has slipped out of the control of the ego and you're dialoguing with that or whatever, but I think when you've had the experience the overwhelming impression is that you are having a conversation with a very strange, very old, very different kind of organism and based on that and as I say these physical arguments about the survivability of the spore and its adaptability to the outer space environment, I want to suggest that space may be no barrier to the migration of forms of, many forms of life, not just forms of life, possessing spaceships and that probably many times in the Earth's history spores have drifted down and become part of things and this is not a radical theory at all, Crick of Crick and Watson holds the same view and believes that probably the galaxy is a biome, the galaxy is a biological unit and we are just coming to the level of scientific and cultural and awareness to recognize these things and of course I think this argument seems preposterous unless you have had the experience on fairly high doses of Psilocybin of actually meeting this alien entity which is an experience very different from the classical psychedelic experience established through the use of LSD and mescaline, those seem to be largely explorations of human dimensions, psychoanalytic and the collective unconscious of Jung, dimensions of historical resonance and that sort of thing, but there was not the prevalence of the extraterrestrial theme that you get with the tryptamines, Psilocybin and DMT especially, these seem to be ways of communicating with a nearby world of alien intelligence which may or may not be space-based, it may be hyperdimensional or it may be earth-based, these may be the elves and fairies of folklore, the human experience is so bounded by language we don't realize how our scientific and linear expectations of the world hide from us the real complexity of what's going on. Well, do you have something you would like to say or ask or comment on? How are we doing Tom Wise? No, go ahead. Okay, that's all right, I have, it was a great little, I have a question then, in the experience of actual extraterrestrial intelligence embodied in form which I've read and heard you describe before, is there a place where you go, I'm asking you a question, in the psychedelic experience with Psilocybin at any rate and DMT forms, where you go into the molecular form and then out another side that forms itself into forms that we're not familiar with here in our 3D land, you actually go through the mandala? The molecular mandala, well I had never cognized it that way but that's an interesting way to think of it, it's as though the molecule turns your mind through another dimension and you see something which is co-present with reality as it were but between the spaces sort of and suddenly the phase shift occurs. I remember when I was a child I had this toy which was a flat piece of paper with a circus cage printed on it and when you move the bars one way there was a zebra in the cage when you slid the bars the other way and covered all the parts of the zebra a tiger was revealed and this is something about the nature of reality that there seems to be at least one other continuum co-present and this is why our folklore is haunted by elves, genies, jinns, aphrits, demons, all these curious creatures of folklore which you know wouldn't be there if there was not some experiential basis for them it's just that we have crowded into cities and then crowded into condominiums and we don't experience what goes on with the single person in vast wilderness in a life lived based on experience of the present at hand rather than vast abstract systems of explanation dictated by science and government and that sort of thing. Would you would you like to comment at all on what you think the psychedelic experience is with your knowledge of the chemistry of the plants and so forth and of the physiology of the body and the kind of experiences you've had do you have any idea what it is what what is it? Well I'll tell you what I think it is but it's not really based on physiology or pharmacology it's based on carefully looking at the experience. Plato said time is the moving image of eternity and I think that what these psychedelics do is they actually do connect you to the whole circle you stand outside of the moment from which you embarked on your psychedelic experience and you see eternity like a vast landscape deployed in front of you so what I think psychedelics are is they're about time and they somehow make all time co-present and how this is possible and why it's possible I don't know but I think perhaps this is what the myth of the fall is about that what man's fall is is really the fall into time the time of a fading past an unknown future and a very intense but very small area where things are going on called the present there is some way in which that can be stepped out of and it's not it's not an either-or situation we are all to some degree in time and we are all to some degree in eternity and to the degree that we are in eternity we behave correctly and have right activity and right perception and these psychedelics enhance this involvement with the totality of everything that's why it is not naive to suggest that issues like the nuclear gridlock and all these other terminal problems that we have could be overcome if people would by any means try to come into attunement with the notion of unity in time and space of the species and the planet and the solar system and and I think this is the the evolving core idea which will either save us or the absence of its evolution will be our ruin the idea of unity and in
 interrelatedness. I would like to suggest that it's possible that both things are happening, that there is a universe where it's unraveling and one where it's already won. And wasn't it, I mean, wasn't it you, who's the, Robert Anton Wilson I know has talked about it some, suggested the future is already, it's pulling us towards it. And I like that. And you talked about 12-12 as a step over point. I've told everybody. 20-12. 20-12, yeah. And a few days ago, somebody told me that the Mayan fifth wheel, which we're on now, ends in 2011, which I didn't know. It actually ends in 2012. It ends on the 21st of December, 2012, just 30 days after the date that I picked from all the work we did with the I Ching. Yes, somehow. What did you do? How did you do that? Do you mind running it down really? I can't understand your book. It's very complex. I just can't understand it. But yeah, the apocalypse is the millennium, and the psychedelics move you into the future. We are all occupying different places in historical time. I mean, some of us are completely uncivilized Neanderthals. I mean, and some of us are very uptight 18th century sort of people interested in the social contract and the obligations of class and party. And some of us are future people. And this is the whole, you don't have to wait for society to move into the future. You can just make it happen around you. And if everyone did that, we could leap 1,000 years into the future. I try to tell people, that's one of the things that I say when people come on, oh, well, are we going to make it through the nuclear thing and stuff? And I say, listen, man, I've visited the future. I know there's a future. I don't know whether there's one for you, but I'm sure there's one for me, because I've seen myself in it, right? And I keep coming back, and you keep coming back, and we all keep coming back. Because we've got a whole this great thing, and we want everybody to share it. But we have a few little things we work out ourselves on the way. Yes. Well, by everybody by example, I think that the whole thing, the crux of the whole psychedelic issue is that it accentuates personal responsibility by making people take their own experiences seriously. People completely undervalue themselves. They think that they are spectators to life. They think that the great scientific breakthroughs, the great works of art, the great political upheavals will all be brought to them on the tube and explained by Newsweek. They don't realize that all of that is illusion, and that what is central is the immediacy of personal experience, and that if you work with that, you can just leave history and move off sideways from it and become your own Magellan. This is what people are doing in their living rooms, taking psilocybin in darkness late at night. We are the Columbus's of the new world of the human spirit, and by taking responsibility, by abandoning the myth that science, government, the military, and the churches are the forces which make culture, and just realizing culture is what we're doing at this very moment. The evolution of historical thought is what we're doing at this very moment. Maybe before, I have one more thing, and then I think that you ought to get a little technical before you have to go, but I always like to ask people if there's something I haven't asked, that they feel people ought to hear right now at this place in the infinity sign. No, I'm very tricky. I unburdened myself early on of what I wanted to say, what I thought should be gotten out. Let's talk about, just for a few minutes, about your book, your cassette book, and that and where people can order. What's in it? What's it about? Okay, well, it's a book called, I wrote a book called True Hallucinations, which was the story behind the invisible landscape, the story of an amazing expedition to the Amazon in the early 70s, in which we met the saucers, or at least I never want to meet them more closely than that, and discovered the mushroom which we brought back, which we wrote our book about, and basically it's just the wildest experience I've ever had or ever heard of, read onto eight cassettes as a nine-and-a-half-hour talking book, with wonderful special effects and musical backgrounding and that sort of thing. Well, that gave us a concise thing here before they started making too much noise, which was really great. So, Lou, I know, has a lot of questions, and before we break up, it would be neat to hear you all. I can tape. I can tape. I think you'd probably like to. Well, let me thank you, first of all, Liz. I think people like you are really the shock troops of the New Order, because the whole thing that we're all doing is information, and the radio is very, very important. I know, that's why I've got to get together to package this program and send it out around. I want to send it to those spots in the United States that have enough aware population to enjoy it. I think there are probably 30 to 50 of them, anyway. Well, you may get better, but you're just fine the way you are. Oh, yeah. Well, I'm fine, I know. It's an all-win situation. So, do you want to go back to where you were talking about, because that led us into, why organic stuff? We were talking about... Oh, we were talking about cauldron chemistry. Dichotomy and alchemy. Yeah. Well, there are many... An interesting thing to think about in regard to shamanism and all that is that there may be many situations where natural products can be combined to make a powerful hallucinogen, where the components themselves are not. The most obvious known example of that is ayahuasca in the Amazon, where DMT in Cicotria viridis is potentiated by taking MAO-inhibiting harmine from Banisteriopsis capi. But there may be many potentials for these kinds of things. For instance, why were the druids so interested in mistletoe? Let's look at the chemistry of mistletoe and try to imagine ways in which mistletoe might be brought in that direction. The erundodonics case is another one. The Chinese... Many of the mushrooms in the Chinese pharmacopeia could be looked at as well. Ayurvedic medicine, there are traces of combinatory hallucinogens. So, this is actually an area where not a lot of work has been done, and in fact, generally, synergies have not been studied. Synergies are a situation where two compounds are put together to get an effect. Even pharmaceutically and medically, the synergies that occur with various drugs have not been well studied. There are a few areas that I spend some time thinking about. One of them is the, what I call, lower-life form biochemical conversion processes, or ways in which things are transmitted, perhaps from termites through termitomyces, through tool-making behavior in chimpanzees, through this transfer of information occurs and continues to occur, and so that each organism, perhaps, in its combination, the flies, which are stupefied by muscaria as it discays, are eaten by the frogs, whose legs, in turn, are... And so there's a lower processing that goes on in that way, as one form. The other is a chromopuncture, an area selectively, that the body is selectively sensitive to certain colors, to certain chemicals in certain areas, and that this is another area that isn't really understood or hasn't been looked into. No, you make a very good point. The other would be olfactory intoxicants, that there's a critical timing and involvement, I think, that has to go on in order to optimize an experience, and I think the olfactory component is one that needs to be considered. Pheromones are aromatic compounds which are message-bearing chemicals that insects give off, but plants also give off pheromones, and in fact, the more it's looked into, the more it appears that everything is giving off pheromones, and the plainer nature of hallucinogens suggests that they may be, in some sense, natural hallucinogens, super pheromones. They are actually message-bearing compounds whose purpose is to communicate between one species and another or within a species. For instance, the language of insects is not allowed.
 language of sound but a language of chemical excretion and how complex this language is we don't know because we can't pierce into it but I studied for a while under dr. Ralph Fahdy who was a great geographer and medical epidemiologist and he suggested that hallucinogens should be looked upon as a subset of pheromones and I know when you're in the Amazon you just breathe this air which is laden with thousands of chemical messengers of all sorts that are setting the ambiance of the whole biosphere and this has not been looked at it's not well understood there was an amazing article written a few years ago by a man named Harry Wiener who wrote an article called external chemical messengers ECM he called them and in the New York Journal of Medicine and he outlined a whole theory of how this regulated species and interspecies relations he talked about how when you walk into a room full of people you get an immediate gestalt impression which he felt was olfactory that you were sensing the psychic conditions of everyone by taking a lungful of the message laden chemicals that everybody was exuding he talked about psychiatrists who would diagnose schizophrenia by smell they would just walk over to the person and take a hit of their body odor and felt you know that and and he even suggested that what perhaps some forms of schizophrenia are is miscuing socially because your pheromone system is haywire so you're giving off what can only be described as a weird vibe and so people relate to you weirdly and that makes you weirder and it makes them weirder and you get this feedback lock and it's essentially because your invisible chemical messenger computer is broken down what I was thinking was that if we could get back a little bit to the combination of the let's say the tryptamine the DMT and the harming or those those combinations and also to get to the fugu if I know very little about it and it would be nice if if you have some thoughts on the chemistry of the fugu and the new it's the fish that's eaten in Japan yes I don't know we actually anything about that particular fish I know that there are fish eaten off Norfolk Island which is an island off the west coast of Australia in fact there's an amazing description of a trip in Hoffer and Osmond's book how hallucinogens this person this happened in the early 60s they they saw a monument to the first landing on the moon and had all these super science fiction visions of the future that they had not expected to get high it was an accidental they had caught this fish roasted it on the beach and ate it and in Hawaii there are similar fish and about six species are implicated I think in all cases DMT is the compound but not a lot of animal tissue contains utilizable amounts of hallucinogens for instance I don't think it's ever no hallucinogenic insect has ever been confirmed although there are persistent reports of a grub a palm grub immature beetle form in Brazil which is hallucinogenic and occasionally butterflies are mentioned as hallucinogenic but it's never been confirmed so this is an area where research needs to be done when if one were to be able to make say DMT from the rabbit lungs and are able to obtain the homine from the Russian thistle or the other plants how would one proceed in terms of combining these in the most effective way well you want to you want MAO inhibition so you have to take an effective dose of the MAO inhibitor and then the DMT is usually potentiated at a dose lower than the effective dose without the MAO inhibitor and probably since these things are degraded substantially in the gut the most effective way of doing it it would be to smoke it or sublingual absorption is also a direct route that avoids the degradation in the digestive system

Language About The Unspeakable ~ Part 66 (Terence McKenna)

Okay, so here's the Black Death, 1356. Here's 1440. Clearly the initiation of a very steep symmetry break, a steep descent into novelty. What happened in 1440? Johannes Gutenberg printed the first Bible at Mainz near Frankfurt in Germany. Printing was invented, a technological and informational revolution like nothing the world had ever seen, on a scale with the invention of the alphabet, or perhaps the invention of language itself. But that ain't all. Fifteen years later, in 1455, just as we go over the lip of this thing, the Ottoman Turks seize Constantinople and chop off all European access to the markets of the Far East. This is a total body blow to the evolution of the European economies. And a group of previously obscure northern Italian cities decide to pool their money and take a chance on some new shipbuilding and navigation techniques, and decide that they will attempt to sail around Africa to avoid dealing with the blockage of passage to the east by the Turks' seizure of Constantinople. These are the Renaissance. These people become the Renaissance princes because these previously poor Italian villages, Siena, Florence, Padua, Cordova, Civitella, they become the jewels of the Italian Renaissance. This is the Italian Renaissance. This incredible plunge into novelty. Everybody you ever heard of in the Italian Renaissance is on that gradient. You know, the early guys up here, Fra Angelico and like that, Donatello, Caravaggio, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Botticelli, the whole bit. And while all this art is being made, don't forget all kinds of invention is taking place as well. And the whole thing reaches its culmination at the bottom of this trough, 1492. Okay, now 1492 has been called the Anno Mirabile since it happened, the year of miracles, because it was in a single year the Muslims were expelled from Spain and these voyages of exploration were undertaken that led to the discovery of the new world. Unlike the Black Plague, where the rebound was quick, there was no rebounding from the novelty unleashed by the Italian Renaissance and the discovery of the new world. Instead, there's a long, long period in which that novelty has to be assimilated. And this is like the age of the marvelous. This is the age of the cult of the court of Rudolf in Prague. This is a period of time which stretches from 1492 to 1619. The entirety of the 16th century is along the bottom of this trough. And if you know anything about European history, you know that the 16th century was the most exotic century of the last 500 years before the 20th. I mean, this is where alchemy reached its great inflorescence. The Rosicrucian Enlightenment, the careers of Dr. D., of Henry Cornelius Agrippa, Giordano Bruno, all of that is happening here, including the discovery of the new world. Well, then, something happens here and this whole thing abruptly comes to an end. There is an end to the era of novelty in 1619. Well, what happened in 1619? Right, I know. You haven't a clue. In 1619, the Thirty Years' War began. The Thirty Years' War created modern Europe. When the Thirty Years' War begins, Europe is thoroughly medieval, ruled by popes and kings. At the end of the Thirty Years' War, Europe is a continent of nations, ruled by parliaments and councils. Here it is, you know, warfare, destroying the novelty achieved here, but with major exceptions. I call this Newton's Notch. That's the founding of the Royal Society in England, Newton's Principia, Cartesian logic, so forth and so on. It all isand, you know, the English Civil War is here, the Restoration, so forth, wars of religion. Then, in 1740, it changes. This steep descent into novelty, from roughly 1740 to 1845, is, in its early phase, what's called the European Enlightenment, the French encyclopedists, Voltaire, all that, and in its later phase, what's called the Industrial Revolution. The American Revolution, 1776, right here. The French Revolution follows, 1789, right here. The Restoration of Louis-Napoleon, so forth and so on. And then this bump here is, simultaneously, the Franco-Prussian War in European history and the American Civil War in American history. Yeah? A lot of people would include, along with the Italian Renaissance and the Greek Golden Age, the birth of Christ as one of those points where the graph should do something. And I noticed we skipped over that. I'd just be curious to see what it looked like in zero. Okay, well, we can go back to it. You're quite right. The life of Christ is very interesting, because, of course, Christ is Christ, but he lived, simultaneously, during the reign of one of the greatest civil and military reformers of all time. I mean, Christ lived in the era of Augustinian Rome. So, it's a tremendous era of novelty. I can tell you what's going on. Remember how I said that Minoan Crete, it starts a cascade, and then that cascade doesn't flatten out until the fall of Rome. So, it's in a very steep period of descent into novelty. After I go through this, I'll go back and pick it up for you, if there's time. What I want to do is, I want to fly toward modernity here. And here, I'll do it fairly quickly. Excuse me? Yes. This is a very Eurocentric viewpoint. Would you get the same timeline, for instance, with an Eastern culture, like a Chinese culture? Well, two things to that. Number one, you're right, and I'll come back to that. Number two, Oriental history shows a curious parallelism with Western history. In other words, the Roman Empire rises and falls almost in perfect concert with the Han Dynasty. So, you can say it's Eurocentric, although the Islamic role is strongly accentuated. I agree that it's Eurocentric. What kind of world are you living in? A Eurocentric world. The Maya, for all their accomplishments, don't deserve a blip of great depth in a universal novelty description like this, because who did they influence? So, for instance, the Chinese, a lot of the Chinese inventions were transferred to Europe. Oh, yeah, well, that kind of thing shows up very well. Yeah, global evolution of technology, it picks up very well. Terence, who did the Mayans influence? No one. No one. Because there was no, I mean, the Toltecs a little, but who did they influence? The Toltecs, you know, in the Valley of Mexico. Terence, you know, the other resonance that you have there on the, for example, 1313 is, you mentioned the collapse and retaking of the Holy Land by the Arabs and what have you. You also have at that point the collapse and diaspora of the Templars, who gave rise to the whole age of chivalry and, you know, the troubadour and all of that. The spreading through of medieval Europe of those esoteric ideas gained in the Holy Land during that same period of time. That's right, the Angervine court of Eleanor of Aquitaine and that whole business. Okay, now let's zoom in on modern history and finer scale stuff, because I want to show you it doesn't only work on things on a scale of a thousand.
 years. Okay, there's 715 years on the screen, 357 years on the screen, 178, 89 years. Let's look here for just a moment. This is from 1906 to 1996. This is a good place to show you how the resonances work. Remember how I talked about Ur, Chaldea, Babylon, and then Egypt at the bottom of the trough of history's fractal mountain? Well, what's at the bottom of that trough here? 1933. Well, WPA. I hadn't thought of that. Large-scale building projects. How about this? A cult of a god-like leader. A fascination with over-scale architecture. A tendency to mistreat Jews. What have we got here? We've got Nazi Germany. The word Fhrer and the word Pharaoh are actually etymologically related. The static, monolithic, slave-labor style of ancient Egypt is recreated inside the Third Reich. Is that not weird? I ask you. Okay, so this is the early 20th century relativity, this descent into novelty. Relativity, 1906. Quantum dada, 1919. Surrealism, the Manifesto, 1922. The Copenhagen Conference on quantum physics, 1923. The radio, all of it. Powered flight, blah, blah, blah, blah. The Third Reich. Then World War II fought across the bottom of this trough here, ending in the explosion of the atom bombs. Now, after World War II, what people were interested in was literally a return to normalcy. It was called that, the return to normalcy. We've whipped Hitler. We've called down the power of the stars upon our enemies. Now we just want to go back and marry the girl next door and barbecue and buy some tube furniture and get a Chevy and make nice, make nice. And here it is, you know, a period of traditional activity, recidivism, conservatism, so forth and so on. And now I'll zoom in a little more. Oh, before I do, the whole 19th, the early 1960s here, and then right here, right at the top, no, landing on the moon, landing on the moon, the hippies, LSD, the whole ball of wax. I mean, basically at the very, very top of this thing, to the day, to the day, the human being in the panhandle in San Francisco. Now, if that doesn't confirm my own inner agenda, I don't know what possibly could. Here, let's go in and have a look at it. Where's the Grand Central Station be? Oh, we'll get there. 44 years, there's the top of the 60s, 22 years, the Reagan-Bush era, 11 years, 11 years and two months, the last 11 years. Now, remind yourself, we have not moved the positioning. We have started with 6 billion years. We're down to 11 years. Everything is being generated from this point in 2012. It's been right, right, right, and now the last 11 years from 83 to 94. Okay. This is in resonance, the fall of Rome. In fact, the end of the Reagan era. This point here, well, I'm going to go in one more scale because I want you to see this. Because we've been through a lot in the past 5 years, 7 months, and one day, I believe. By the way, see this little pointer that has appeared? It's pointing at today. It's pointing at today. Okay. Let's go through these low points. This one, June 89, Tiananmen Square, massacre, 3 million people, perhaps the largest crowd in history. Halt in its tracks. The largest and most totalitarian government on the planet for 30 days is paralyzed until it discovers a traditional solution to the problem, mass murder of its own citizens. Okay. Go forward. Next low spot, November 1989, the Berlin Wall falls to the day, to the day, right there. Okay. Now, this spot is interesting. This spot, the bottom of this little trough here, on the next higher level is the birth of Mohammed. The exact resonance date here of the birth of Mohammed is August 3, 1990. Saddam Hussein seizes Kuwait on the day of the resonance of Mohammed's birth. And Mohammed died over here. No, no. They never know. Mohammed died here. So, here's the seizure of Kuwait. Then remember all the breast beating and the moving of troops around and all that? That goes on up to here. Then this is the issuing of the UN ultimatum, which made war inevitable. Here is the air war, this descent here, early January 1991. The ground war, and if I were to blow up the bottom of this slope for you, you'd see that it's wildly fluctuating on the fine scale, but the land war is there. Okay. Next low point, August 1991, the kidnapping of Gorbachev and the first Soviet coup d'etat right there. I'm going to skip over this one because the only interesting thing that happened there was that, it's the two interesting things happened actually. Food of the gods was released that day. And I hate to tell you, but Ross Perot went on Larry King and allowed maybe he would run for president. Okay. Then this low point here. Let me make sure I got my ducks in a row. Let me use the pointer actually. See, this tells me the exact date. Can you see that pointer? There's Clinton's election right there in that low trough. And as you see, then we have come up. We've come up today. Oh, what was the date of the LA earthquake? January what? There it is. That's January 13th, but you see the symmetry break. If I go one keystroke further, that's the 19th. So you see how tight on it is. Okay. So then today is February 27th. Now we'll fly in and have a look at it. No. And that should tell you something. Just a sec. Cause I can't take my eyes off this thing. There's one year, there's eight months, there's four months, two months, one month, 15 days, seven days, the last seven days, the last three days, the last day, the last 23 hours.
 Now, I think we're getting close to the range limit. Let me do a couple of things here, a couple of housekeeping things. What I want to do is move today's date over to the other side of the screen so that we can look at the future. That's what's interesting. Now, because there's so little of it left, you see, we've been looking at 6 billion years, there's only 18 years left. I often wonder, so what if it were true? I'd hardly have time to enjoy my notoriety. Okay, now, specify target date. C, month, oh, 2, 27, 1994. No. Okay, now, specify time span, 20 years. E. I think so, if I did it right. Years, 20. Plus months, no, plus days, no. Okay, now, do we have everything right? Graph the wave, graph the wave. Yes. Okay, now, see the pointer over here? That's pointing at today. Now, remember how I said the impact on Jupiter was the week of July 21? Let me run the pointer forward. There is August 5th, 1994, and the one stroke back, the 16th of July, 1994. See, it's right there. Now, the reason I wanted to show you this, other than just the razzle-dazzle of the future, is look what's coming. We've got a test of sufficient force coming that if the wave fails this test, I wouldn't think it would be necessary to hang on until 2012, because this is a very major test of the theory. And what it's saying is that beginning around January 23rd, 1996, and lasting until May 1st, 1996, a period of only 64 days, there is going to be an enormous rush into novelty. And I have no idea what we're looking at. We could be looking at revolution in China, AIDS cure, planetesimal impact, Hawaiian independence, or all of those and more. But that's where it'll be, early 1996. The analog is the Umayyad Caliphate and the invention of algebra. So it may be that it's the evolution of some kind of incredibly powerful mathematical technique that will configure technology and science for the rest of the 18 years left to us. Now, I also wanted to show you this, because this explains this compression that is going on in historical time. Remember how I pointed out how the Nazis were very much like Old Kingdom Egypt? Well, everything is being lived in these lower-level residencies at high rates of acceleration and compression, so that, for example, what took 11 years in the past takes six days or something like that in the present. So fads and fashion are the place to look for the ebb and flow of this stuff. We right now are in the early 8th century, early 9th century. Clinton is our Charlemagne. The revolt in Mexico is in resonance with the Mayan collapse and going on in the very same area. This is how it works. It's a kind of a lens for seeing how the future unfolds along certain themes. So what I would predict here is some radical gains or something radical here having to do with ideas and Islam. Maybe a young Palestinian physicist will write the unified field theory or something like that. Then the rest of the 90s carries us only into the high Gothic period, the medieval period. Well, for sure, the fundamentalists are just going to camp on the millennium. I mean, they truly believe that Jesus is coming. So, you know, this whole period around 2000 will be monopolized by Christian rhetoric and hoopla. Then beyond that, it looks like, you know, I would hate to think that this is some kind of new plague, but we do have in the early years of the next century the resonance with the Black Death. Further on in 2004 to 5, the Italian Renaissance in 2004, ending in late 2005 with the discovery of the new world, which I would predict is a water-heavy, oxygen-rich planet around Alpha Centauri or Beta Centauri. Just as an aside, did you know that Beta Centauri, which aside from the red dwarf Alpha Centauri, is the nearest star? Beta Centauri is the most sun-like star within 70 light years of this planet. It's incredibly sun-like, 1.1 solar masses and burning in the same part of the spectrum as the sun. It's entirely possible that in 2004 we will have sufficient instrumentality that if there are planets around Beta Centauri, they will swim into view. And if they're water-heavy and oxygen-rich, we will have discovered the new world. Or it may be that somebody constructs a doorway into DMT land or something else. But 2004, the discovery of the new world. 2009, the equivalent of the Industrial Revolution. And then all of the 19th and 20th century compressed into the next two years, leading to the spin-down. Because the shortest cycle is not 67 years, 104.25 days. There are shorter cycles. There's a 384-day cycle that will begin 384 days before December 21st, 2012. And that into 384 days will pack all the resonances of all previous cycles. There will then be a six-day cycle at the end, packing all the resonances and associations into six days. There will then be an hour and 35-minute cycle. Then a 1.3-second cycle. And in other words, the thing is just hurtling toward the omega point. Imagine this. If you had a universe like the kind of universe I'm describing that was 72 billion years old and that had 27 levels of spiral involution built into it with a collapse factor of 64, dig this, then half of its becoming would occur in the last six and a half hours of its existence. The universe would be only half-completed six and a half hours before its final completion because the short epochs happen so rapidly. So this is what I think lies ahead. It's not permaculture, not Hawaiian independence, not cheap beer, but something so off the wall that the laws of space and time themselves are going to be melted, condensed, and rolled together. This is a process. I showed it to you. It's been rolling forward for 72 billion years.
 It's never arrived a moment late anywhere along the line. It's on time, it's under budget. And novelty, which we represent, which life represents, which civilization represents, novelty is the proof of it. And novelty is ingressing into three-dimensional space-time at precisely the rates that the theory predicts. It explains why we're here. It explains how the cosmic drama works. And it gives permission to drop anxiety because we're locked into an eternal process of alchemical rarefaction of novelty that is very close now to the culmination. The eschatonic body, the coincidencia positorum, the philosopher's stone, the UFO, the body and blood of our Lord, it's all about to enter history. This is the persistent and incredibly irrational assurance of Western religion that what other people used to call God, that God would enter history. History is the shockwave of eschatology. The presence of history on this planet means that we are only geological microseconds away from the full revelation of the presence of the eschaton. It is causing history. History is a distorted perspective on a higher-dimensional object that is pulling all process into itself and always has been. We barely have language for this. It's being revealed through the psychedelic experience. This is what shamans see. This is why I say a shaman is someone who has seen the end because you leave the radical linear confinement of history and you rise up into the super space of eternity. You look left, you see the Big Bang. You look right and you can see the entire set of universal processes being sucked into the transcendent presence of the eschatonic object. Could this possibly be the earth wobble theory where the ice caps in the North and South Pole become your new equator? I think it's more radical than that. I think it's the collapse of Newtonian space and time. I think there's nothing left at all that you can hang a label on. You'll be neither Agnes nor Angus when this is over. Has that progressed in the year 2022? 2012. 2022. Oh, no. See, the way that if you were to buy the software, you can put any end date in just with the keystrokes. It comes with defaulted to the December 21, 2012 date. But you can enter any end date and then it will scale the entire wave for you relative to the end date you gave it. I scaled it to this date because after trying hundreds and hundreds of dates, this seemed to be right at all scales. This seems to work. Now, if you take this seriously and you try to make rational sense of this revelation, and it is a revelation, and dig the fact that it's a very strange revelation because it's absolutely self-limiting. I'm hung out to dry if nothing happens. It imposes its own test. It says, you know, we will deliver or you're free to reject it. So it isn't some vague promise about someday or soon or no. Dawn, Greenwich, 18 minutes after 11 a.m., December 21, 2012, Greenwich, meantime, the Yaskaton will rise in the east and consume the solar system and so forth and so on. Now, what did I want to say about this? Dawn, I'm going to suggest that you take the progression to the year 2022. You mean try that as an end date? Not an end date, a now date, a progression date. Well, let me explain to you, like, short of the absolute consummation of the world and the ascent into the angelic imperium, how could this be fulfilled? How could this be fulfilled and be true and yet somehow not leave no stone upon another? Nuclear war. No, nuclear war is a recidivist return to happen. Here's the one thing that could happen, as I see it, that could fulfill the prophecy and yet leave three-dimensional space and time intact. One thing I've noticed about the wave is that it's excellent at predicting the evolution of technology. Technology and novelty are very closely related concepts in the cosmos of the time wave. How would it be if what happens at 18 minutes after 11 a.m. on December 22, 2012, is that a button is pushed and for the first time in the history of this planet, a person moves through time. The sequential linearity of history ends. And then we would all say, of course, history ended. I discussed this with the mushroom and it told me a very strange thing, which I didn't believe at the time. It said time machines are possible, but you can only go back in time as far as the moment of the invention of the first time machine. Because before that, there were no time machines. And how can you take a time machine into a universe where, by definition, time machines do not exist? That would introduce a paradox. So then I thought about it and I thought, and follow me through on this, I thought, aha, here's the picture. It's a few moments before sunrise in the Amazon, December 21, 2012 A.D., at the World Temporal Institute. The first person is about to be sent into the future. The Lady Temponaut is strapped into the machine in full view of a worldwide three-dimensional virtual reality hookup. Everybody is watching. A brief speech is made, a countdown from 20, a button is pushed, and off she goes into the future. Now, the interesting question at this point, I think, is, what happens, to use an obsolete word, next? What happens next? And I think in that kind of a universe, what would happen next is that thousands, tens of thousands of time machines would begin arriving at the end of the time road. They would have come back to see the first trip into time. They would arrive from all points in the future at the end of the road to witness the first time travel. Now, this idea lasted for about 24 hours, and then I realized there's a problem here. There's something called the grandfather paradox that is always introduced in discussions about time travel, and it is this. If you were able to travel back in time, you could kill your grandfather. If you killed your grandfather, you would not exist. Therefore, you could not have traveled back in time and killed your grandfather. Therefore, we're hung out to dry here on some kind of a paradox. And the only way around that paradox, because you see in the kind of time travel the mushroom says is allowed, the traveling back to the moment of the first time machine's invention, you could still have a grandfather paradox. Because if your grandfather was born in 2022, and you were born in 2080, on your way back to 2012, you could stop in 2025 and kill your infant grandfather. So what do we do about this? The solution is this. When the button is pushed, when the lady tamponade sails off into the future, what happens is not that time machines arrive instantly from all points in the future. Something much more radical happens. The rest of history happens instantaneously. It all happens instantaneously. There is a collapse of the illusion of linear time.
 God whistle. What you do is you sound this shrill tone and the rest of universal history is like magically removed and the next serial moment is the last moment in the history of the universe and you go into the highest state of evolution that the universe can achieve in its entire history. So what this is is a kind of fast forward button. You think you're inventing time travel. What you're really inventing is a button which causes the rest of time to happen instantly and then the entire global civilization moves into eternity. It's a curious thing. But hey, what isn't? How do you relate this to apocalyptic theory, to second coming, to... Excellent question. Here's how I relate it to it. Through the resonances that we've been looking at here, it's clear that if time is this kind of fractal that I'm talking about, then it's a series of embedded modules that are complete within themselves so that the entire history of the universe is in some sense recapitulated in every minute, every hour, every day, every year, every century is a recapitulation or an anticipation of the highest cycle of time. So a Christ, a Buddha, a Mohammed is simply a person who stood in a certain geometric relationship to the object at the end of time. You know how you can stand on a hill and the glass windows of a house across the valley will be blinding, but if you move just a few feet, it disappears into the general environment. These are people who were as ordinary as you and me except for their perspective on the eschaton. And these were the biggies, Christ, Buddha, Mohammed. Every single one of us, from Joe, Shako, Guru, to you and me, we all have a perspective on the eschaton. It's within us. Genetic encoding. Anticipation. So the promise of Western religion... Well, here's the way to think of it. Think of the eschaton, this object in eternity pulling everything toward itself. Think of it as one of those mirrored balls that they hang in discos and spin, you know? And you know how it causes moving lights on the walls? Those are reflections of the barbell, but they're distorted reflections. And all reflections are distorted. So David Koresh's version of things, Charles Manson's version, Buddha's version, Hitler's version, Christ's version, everybody's version is slightly, or more than slightly, tweaked. Including mine, of course. All versions are tweaked. But the closer you get to the end of the road, the less tweaked the versions are. Because the radiance of the thing is growing in power. So a shaman, 50,000 years ago, in his cave in the south of France, taking mushrooms, he looks forward and there's a dim glimmering, a something, a transcendental hope, a possibility. Now you take mushrooms and you can almost see the radiance of the eschaton shining through ordinary reality. And all these religions are anticipations of this thing. And your own transcendent hopes are in anticipation of this thing. We can tune in to the eschaton. And this is what psychedelics are. That's why I said a shaman is someone who has seen the end. A shaman is someone who knows how the story comes out and can therefore return to ordinary linear time, take their place in the drama with a total absence of anxiety, and then be a wonderful role model, curer, and paradigm for other people who lack this critical piece of knowledge, the nature of the end. Would it be your suggestion that at 11am on December 21st in 2012 to be heavily dosed? It's like racing a lighted match to greet a supernova. The basic paradox between traditional scientific thought and what Rupert is talking about, you're talking about, Abrams is talking about, the people in quantum physics, Godswami and those guys, revolves around the issue of teleology and the rejection of teleology. And this causes the absolute collapse of that denial that something in the future can influence and cause an event in the past. And that is the philosophical peg around which all of this is working. That's right. Let me explain what's being said here. Teleology is a fancy philosophical word for purpose. If you have a telos, you have a purpose. And it has been very, very important to modern science to remove teleology from its explanations. Even the theory of evolution, which is the most teleological of scientific theories, real hardcore materialist evolutionists will tell you, don't think of it as progress. It's not progress. It's random mutation being acted upon by selective forces in the environment. But don't think that an elk is more advanced than an amoeba or that a grey whale is more advanced than a sponge. There is no progress here. There is simply sideways mutation toward different form. But I say this contravenes reason. There obviously is progress. But progress means movement toward a goal. That's a purpose. Movement toward a goal is a purpose, and they go berserk when you try to inject teleology. It undermines the causation of basic, contemporary, modern science. Yes, you see, 19th century science arose in an atmosphere of what was called deism. Deism was the current form of Christian theology that said that the universe was a kind of universal machine that God had built and set running and then gone away and left. And the 19th century Darwinists and the Wallace's, they wanted it away from teleology. So they built logical systems where everything proceeds from cause to effect. Everything is pushed from the past toward the future. I'm saying exactly the opposite. Using the new language of chaos theory and dynamics, I'm saying the future contains an attractor, a kind of energy low point in the topology. And history is like releasing a ball bearing on a stretched rubber sheet that has a low point. Where will the ball bearing roll? Where will it end up? In the low point. And it may even circle around the low point as it rattles down into the bottom like a pinball in a pinball machine. This is perfectly reasonable. It's just incredibly unwelcome in the domain of science. But I think that science has betrayed itself by not admitting that over all scales of time and all scales of phenomena, novelty is being conserved, is refining, building upon itself, and accelerating its approach toward an ideal state of perfection. And that is this eschatonic body. You said that science is betraying. But the 264 is also found as a major number in computers, technology, which is a culmination of science, and also genetic code, DNA. It's all interlinked together. So once science recognizes that, they're going to come to the realization that they were wrong. Yeah, the problem is, as I said at the beginning of today, that science as we know it will not survive this revolution because time is a variable, and all science that has been done to date has treated time as an invariant.
 and if we want to understand love affairs, revolutions, corporate takeovers, brain tumors, if we want to understand the things that matter to us as organisms, we're going to have to create an entirely new definition of what science is about and what it's looking at. Everything you measure is altered by the act of measuring. That's right. So, therefore, if there were a giant flywheel, everything spinning, everything repeating, what people perceive, as well as that perfect repetition, is the slight vibration of the machine, and that's what most people perceive, and that's what they are, a slight and irrelevant imperfection in the cycle of infinite recurrence. And that is the resonance and analog on the quantum physics level of spirit being the motivating factor for matter rather than the reverse, as in your discussions of teleology and the causation-driven theories. That's right. That's why there are 64 species of time. That's why DNA is the way it is. DNA is like iron filings arranging themselves in the presence of a deeper magnetic ordering field, the principle of 64. The 64 hexagrams are mental categories, iron filings on a different level, but all configuring themselves to reflect these universal principles of hierarchical ordering and interrelatedness. Now, to a degree, it's an indulgence on my part to tell you all this because it's just my theory, or that's how a straight person would see it. From my point of view, this is what the mushroom said. From the mushroom's point of view, this is square one. This is what you know if you know anything. This is what you know if you've ever been off the block. Of course you know the nature of space, time, matter, and energy. Yeah? As an astrophysicist, you explained it to me that in the beginning of the creation of the universe, everything passed through a single point. And what I'm beginning to hear from you is it's almost like we've seen creation backwards. We're coming to the beginning of time, going through the central point. So it's actually coming, it's a telescope, that's the origin of everything at the end. Yes, the scientific theory is called the Big Bang. The theory I put out this morning I would call the Big Surprise. And the Big Surprise comes at the end, and not at the beginning. Well, what I'm seeing is that there really is no beginning or end in what you're saying. Where we're going is to the eye of the form, the eye. We're going outside the cycle of cause and effect. Exactly. And the thing is, haven't you all noticed that people being hominid to muscaria, matriarchal psilocybin, psilocybin is a spoken term on a massive scale. It's exactly coinciding with the advent of ecological concern. Now there's a tale your biology teachers never told you. What did you say? That the rise of ecological concern and the awareness of plant consciousness through psychedelics are simultaneous phenomenon. I mean, essentially the guy in mind is coming into focus. History is ending. The evidence of your senses is true. It can't go on much longer. It can't go on much longer. What you thought you saw was real. And there is built into the physics of this universe, local or general, who knows, this bootstrapping circularity that is going to lift us to higher and higher levels. Now, what I want to say about this is we're getting close to the end. Sorry. You should not believe this. I don't believe this. I got as far as I got by not believing anything. The mushroom specifically said, when I said, why are you telling me this? It said, because you don't believe anything. This is a hypothesis to be tested. It is not a religious faith to kneel down in front of. It is mathematically anchored, as modern theories have been since the 1850s. And it can be tested and possibly overthrown by ordinary methods of discourse and analysis. It is not a mystical teaching. It does not depend on belief. It's a series of interlocking mathematical assertions that are open to test. And I cannot imagine what the purpose of my 25-year-long involvement with this is, unless there is some measure of truth in this. I have studied other channelings from the Urantia book through whatever, and it isn't like this. Nobody gets it down to a mathematical algorithm that can be submitted to the desk of science for a visa stamp. This is coming from the same place where those things not based on faith, but on the deeper implications of reason and mathematics are coming from. We do feel our planet to be in crisis. An odd thing about this theory, which I confess troubles me, as I guess the way to put it, is that it seems to lift obligation off of us. It seems to be saying, it's here. There is nothing left to be done. And, you know, I come out of the Berkeley commune, a tradition of political activism, a real uncomfortableness with bad social policy and the repression of unfortunate classes, races, and people. And I want to do something. I'm puzzled by the completedness of this theory. And where I rest with it is I act as though it is not true. And I think you should act as though it is not true. You're still responsible. You can't be a jerk. You must still recycle. You must still take care of your shit. But this is permission to hope. This is permission to understand how your dreams could come true. It isn't that the flying saucers will come, or that Lemuria will rise from the sea, or that Maitreya will descend in a cloud of light. It's that the laws of physics and nature themselves have been designed to save you from what you probably deserve. So it's a psychedelic revelation that touches every aspect of human life. It's a way of looking at things, novelty and habit. It's a scientific, quote-unquote, argument for not pushing the river. It's a kind of mathematical description of the Tao. I mean, if you think about the Tao Te Ching, the primary text of Taoism, in the Whaley translation it opens like this. The way that can be told of is not an unvarying way. Now, despite the clumsy use of the double negative, not an unvarying way, what that sentence says is the way that can be told of is a varying way. A varying way. And that's what we have here. We have the universal ebb and flow of flux. One of the greatest philosophers in the Western tradition, the pre-Socratic Heraclitus, got it down to an aphorism in Greek. He said, pantic rea, all flows, all flows. This is the truth. Dominator psychology wishes to build stability where no stability can be permitted in the construction of calendars, in the construction of ideologies, in the construction of relationships. This is a perversion of circumstance. Everything is in flux. Everything flows. Everything in its time is replaced by something else. This is a universal truth and it can liberate and it can make the felt presence of immediate experience rich, satisfying. It can, in short, give life meaning. And we are so embedded in the linear, causal, Newtonian, materialist, reductionist, dominator paradigm that the only way to climb out of that cellar and reach out for the light and the spirit that this universal flux represents.
 is to do it with psychedelics. Our religions are too freighted with past error, philosophical and political. The only way to do it is to directly address your own psychosomatic experience of being by stepping outside of history and going back to the plants. The plants stand outside of history. They stand in the domain of biology and they will liberate us. You and me and everybody not here and everything in space and time. We are moving toward the revelation of the universal purpose that has been in the process of defining and revealing itself since the first atoms clattered into existence. We're part of that drama and we can join in that drama if we avail ourselves of these plant allies and make nature into a partner instead of an obstacle or an enemy. And that's all I have to say about this. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Leo Zeff Remembered by Terence McKenna (April 17, 1988)

I'm Terrence McKenna. I knew Leo for the last five years of his life. I feel deeply honored to be asked to speak at this occasion. There are many people here, I'm sure, who knew Leo longer and on more intimate terms than I myself did. I felt when I stood near Leo that I stood near a giant. And what the experience of standing near a giant was, was the experience of the wisest, kindest, gentlest, funniest man that I have ever had the privilege to know. When I first met Leo, I was so impressed by his vitality. After the public meeting at which we met, I cornered him in private and I said, Leo, I want to ride in your canoe. I don't care where you're going. I just want to be in your canoe. And he said, you're always welcome in my canoe. And I felt that his saying that to me inducted me into a group of people that I think of as Leo's tribe, Leo's people. And for Leo's tribe, Leo was our chief. He was the secret chief. He had no theory to push. He had no ax to grind. In his chosen field, which was psychology and the healing of the soul, he understood better than anyone I've ever met that it's a matter of letting the psyche grow and flower according to its own rules. You stand present, you stand ready, and then you do as little as possible. And everyone who has ever had Leo sit for them knows that that was exactly how he worked. One of the goals of Leo's life was the search for the perfect high. And he inspired many of us to follow in his footsteps. I trust that he has found that way. There was a passage in Rainer Maria Rilke's Letters to a Young Poet that was very important to Leo. He read it to me twice in the space of six months, making sure that I understood every word of it. And I'll read it to you now. Leave to your opinions their own quiet, undisturbed development, which, like all progress, must come from deep within and cannot be pressed or hurried by anything. Everything is gestation and then bringing forth. To let each impression and each germ of a feeling come to completion wholly in itself, in the dark, in the inexpressible, the unconscious, beyond the reach of one's own intelligence, and await with deep humility and patience the birth hour of a new clarity. That alone is living the artist's life, in understanding as in creating. There is here no measuring with time. No year matters, and ten years are nothing. Being an artist means not reckoning and counting, but ripening. Like the tree which does not force its sap and stands confident in the storms of spring, without the fear that after them may come no summer, it does come. But it comes only to the patient, who are there as though eternity lay before them, so unconcernedly still and wide. I learn it daily, learn it with pain, to which I am grateful. Patience is everything. Sometimes when Leo would sit with people, they would come out of their reveries and want to talk with him about what they were learning and seeing. And Leo would listen for a few minutes, but he then would always say, that's fine, that's good, now return to the music. And I like to think that Leo has now returned to the music. And someday so shall we. And to whatever degree we follow his example, life here and the passage to whatever lies beyond will be made much easier. Leo showed the way because Leo knew the way. And I salute him for that. I say for all of us who were his tribe, goodbye to the secret chief, goodbye to the man who saw most deeply. It's now for us to do as he would have had us do.

Megatripolis Club, London, 1994 (Terence McKenna)

He's probably the most adventurous mind on the planet today. I'd just like to say one little thing about the man himself, behind what he talks about. What I like about Terence is that he's not just a philosopher, he's not just a good intellectual. The man is a revolutionary and an iconoclast and he's doing lots of things besides just talking ideas. So that's it. Terence McKenna! Terence is going to talk for about one hour and then we'll do questions and answers. What I'd like you to do is, if you have a question, write it on a piece of paper during the hour, at the end of the hour, and bring it up to where, Alastair? To here. To me, up here. I'll be sitting at the back of the stage, so just give me... That way it works a bit more efficiently. OK. All right. I don't know. Do you sit? Do you stand? What do you do? Is the sound good? Is the light good? So are you happy to be here? Good. So am I. Well... Before I get into the bulk of the lecture tonight, I thought I would just give you some news from the frontier of pharmacology, which is that, for the second time in the 20th century, a mega-halicinogen has been discovered that is active in microgram quantities. You got the sound under control back there? Up there? Down there? Good. So what this is, is an incredible opportunity for the community, because this compound that is active at 300 micrograms when smoked is not illegal anywhere in the world to grow, to manufacture, to possess, to transport. So here is the story. For 45 years it's been a commonplace of the botanical literature that there was a Mexican plant called salvia divinorum. Yes. But it was always said that it was either impossible to confirm its hallucinogenic activity, or whatever it was, it was so unstable that it would only persist in the plant a few hours after it was picked. A few years ago, about five years ago, an American anthropologist, one of our own, Brett Blosser, went to the Oaxacan Mountains and spent some time with the Indians down there, and they showed him how to get off on the plant, the leaf. And he described to me and a number of other people quite extraordinary states of consciousness that were coming from this particular shamanic plant. That's where it rested until about ten months ago when an underground chemist in an earthquake-prone city who prefers to remain anonymous set out to actually isolate the constituents of salvia divinorum. And in short order, he overcame the conventional wisdom and produced a crystalline material active at the microgram range. To check what it was, he purchased a chromatographic standard of a compound called salvorine alpha that had been extracted from this plant 15 years ago, and he smoked that. And the experience was identical. So we now know that there is a new chemical compound in the isoquinoline family that is active in the microgram range that occurs in a plant that looks like Joe Plant. It's a house plant. It's a window box plant. It's a relative of the coleus. It grows from gnome to the equator, and it's legal. So, for the first time since the psychedelic issue has been before the community, we have an opportunity to create a psychedelic community that is entirely within the law. No laws need to be changed, and no laws are broken if we avail ourselves of this stuff to manufacture it, to transport it, to use it, to explore it for psychotherapy, to do it on stage as I'm about to do. No, I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Steady, steady, easy. And this is, this can serve by way of example to point out the fact that there are probably many such plants still to be discovered. The interesting thing about salvia luminorum is that it's not related to any substance currently illegal. Therefore, the argument that it's a structural relative of something illegal is also fallacious. So, at least in the case of the American government, they will have to present medical and scientific evidence that there is a problem with this compound before it will be possible to make it illegal. This is just one more example, along with ibogaine, valeris, ayahuasca, and so forth and so on, of the way in which the earth itself is stepping in to aid in the agenda of cultural transformation. There are too many doorways in nature that lead to heaven. There are too many paths to the mystery for any institution or social policy to be able to thwart the intent of the human species to evolve. This is part of what this end of millennia cultural transformation is about, a rediscovery of the richness of the gifts of nature. I mentioned ibogaine. Ibogaine is another hallucinogen, a West African plant that induces intense visionary experiences and is now being looked at by the National Institute for Drug Abuse in the United States as possibly a strong contender for being a pharmacological intervention on cocaine and heroin addiction. Imagine how the social understanding of the concept altered state and psychoactive substance would be changed if we discovered that the solution to many of our drug problems are drugs, you see. I mean, I maintain that they were the solution to many of our problems thousands and thousands of years ago, and that it was the creation of societies so constipated, so ego-bound, so hierarchically stratified that they couldn't tolerate the presence of an ecstatic shamanism as a social phenomenon. It's the rise of those kind of societies that have led us to the brink of planetary catastrophe. So that sort of brings me to my major theme for the evening or sort of what I wanted to explore with you. I'm interested in the question, is there any reason why smart people should hope? Is there any reason why people of analytical intelligence who are connected up to the facts of the matter about the state of the world should hope? The conventional wisdom is basically no. The smart people who are straight are involved in simply the media management of what has turned into a slow,
 apocalypse, spreading starvation, exacerbated class differences, toxified agriculture, so forth and so on. I don't believe the establishment thinks there are solutions. Their policy is basically the management of panic, which is hardly a forward-moving approach to the adventure of human civilization. So in order to find permission to hope, to believe in something, the first thing you have to do is reconstruct your intellectual model of the universe from the very, very ground up. As long as you're trying to make sense of reality inside the boundaries of the old paradigm, there's no hope. There's no way out of the box of capitalism, monogamy, consumer fetishism, egoism, money worship. No way out. No way. No way out. So what that means is we have to return to first principle. We have to re-understand who we are in the universe, what we are in the universe, and what we mean to it. And in order to do that, we have to, I almost used the word attack, but let's be academic and say provide the critique of science. Because this is the world that science built with the henchmen of capitalism and Christianity. But a critique of science that brings it to a new model of reality is the way to open a door to hope. Okay, so here's the deal. Science has overlooked two immensely salient facts about reality that are not abstruse and to be deduced from analyzing the contents of cyclotrons or the reflectivity data on the moons of Pluto. Science has missed two immensely obvious facts about reality. And here's what they are. The first one is not such a stretch. The first fact is that across all levels of phenomena, atomic, ordinary organic chemistry, biological systems, cultural systems, your life, across all levels of phenomena, the way nature works is that she conserves novelty. What I mean by this is that the universe produces novelty, and then it struggles to maintain it. The universe is a novelty producing engine of some sort. And the further you move from the birth of the universe, the more novel the universe becomes until you arrive here tonight. This is the most novel moment to date in the history of the universe. It is not only a world of astrophysical forces, or a world of astrophysical forces plus organic chemistry, or astrophysical forces, organic chemistry plus biology, but this is a world that has all the levels of novelty that have accumulated throughout the career of the evolving universe. Each level built on the level which preceded it. And one thing I want to point out about this is that this is the first, if you agree with this, then the first payoff is that suddenly human importance is taken back from the scientific view that we are the chancely evolved witnesses of a meaningless process in an ordinary corner of the universe too vast to conceive or imagine. That incredibly disempowering picture of who we are in the cosmos is misled. The actual facts of the matter are that in our bodies, in our brains, in the culture that we have assembled, all the novelty that preceded us has been exploited and is expressed and is honored. We then begin to look like partners in the project of the production of novelty and more novelty and yet greater novelty. Okay, that's the first fact which science overlooked, the conservation of novelty. The second fact that science overlooked is more of a stretch in terms of the break with the past style of thinking that it requires. The second fact which science overlooked is the fact that each advance into novelty, each new level of novelty occurs faster than the level which preceded it. This is incredibly important because what it means is that the culmination of the novelty producing process could be far closer to us in time than we might ordinarily suppose using scientific assumptions about reality. Those of you who have heard me before have heard me say history is the shockwave of eschatology. What that means is that the presence of ourselves on this planet using culture, using language, transferring information electronically around the world, our presence on the planet means that the universal process of novelty production has entered one of its very short cycles. And so what it means is that asymptotic acceleration of change is built into the structure of space-time itself in this region of the cosmos. History is ending. Time is literally running out on this planet. It isn't about political mistakes or anything where we should blame ourselves. It's in the structure of the fabric of space-time itself. And the proof of this is ourselves because the emergence of conscious human beings out of advanced primates occurred with such explosive suddenness that it, like history, argues that we are in the presence of a process that is quickly beginning to accelerate and cross boundary level after boundary level as it bursts through to greater and greater degrees of freedom. So I believe that we are actually preparing to became from ordinary history. I don't know exactly what that means, but the continuation of history for decades, centuries, millennia is inconceivable. That is the hallucination of the establishment because it cannot imagine the actual truth of the situation, which is that the cascade of forces set off by Greek science, by the phonetic alphabet, by monotheism, this cascade of social forces is now propelling the entire global social structure into another dimension, literally another dimension. I mentioned the conservation of novelty. Now I want to go back over it from a slightly different point of view. If we analyze the way in which novelty has made its way into being, you see that it has consisted
 of a kind of conquest of dimensionality. The earliest life forms were probably long-chain polymers or viral particles or something. They were essentially points in the universe. They had no sensorium, no sense of direction, no sexuality, no sense of time. They were basically a point-like toehold in matter by this thing which we call organic existence. Over time, these life forms developed motility, meaning the ability to move. And they literally fumbled their way through a universe that they could not see, dealing with each moment sequentially. But this sequential exploration of space-time represents the first conquest of dimensionality out of the point space. Later, organisms sequestered light-sensitive chemistry on their surfaces and became aware of a gradient of light which gives the concept here and there and the possibility of moving toward the light. This is a further conquest of dimensionality. The rest of the whole history of life, up until very recently then, is the story of producing better organs of locomotion, better fins, better wings, better feet and arms as higher and higher animals arise, ultimately coordinated binocular vision. And then, at that point, rather than the conquest of dimensionality being halted, one particular organism makes an autogenetic leap to the phenomenon of language. Language is a biological strategy for finding time. Specifically, it's a way of remembering what happened and anticipating what might happen. It explodes the animal consciousness away from the now and creates the incredibly complex web of syntactical and semiotic structures that we know as language. This process is very quickly compared to previous developments followed by a second development, the discovery of writing. Now, it's not simply a matter of handing on oral traditions from generation to generation. Suddenly now, the freezing of time is a very realistic undertaking. Discourse flows into sign, signification in clay and stone, and time is frozen. And the triangulation of the future proceeds through the evolution of the kind of mathematics that we see at Stonehenge and so forth. This unique strategy that the advanced primates created, the strategy of using language to find time, is what the process we call civilization has been all about. And now, with electronic media, enormous databases, the ability to use Telenet and Usenet and move around the planet from library to library with a few keystrokes, essentially, we are completing the program of downloading all of the past into virtual accessibility. And as we do this, we are essentially propelling ourselves into this much-valued domain called cyberspace. Cyberspace is the human transition into a mathematical superspace where we, as a collectivity, become, optionally, a single point of view. Okay, now, what this all means, then, is that human history and biological evolution, and, in fact, the entire unfolding of the process of the universe, it is not something pushed from behind, like the falling of a row of dominoes. In other words, the scientific assumption of causal necessity is only part of the story. The universe is under the spell of what I call a transcendental object, or what chaos theory calls an attractor. There is actually a teleological arrow to process. It is being drawn through, ever into, ever more novel domains, and it spends less time in each domain of novelty until it moves on to the next one. This is what Whitehead called concrescence. It's what it means that, in a hundred years, we've gone from a world where most people didn't possess telephones to a world where most people can call anywhere in the planet as long as they can afford it. Concrescence, the knitting together, the dissolving of boundaries, this is the key to novelty. Novelty is achieved by the flowing together of domains that were previously separate. They may be the haploid portions of a chromosome for rich people and poor people, or gravers and travelers, or Marxists and Democrats. The point is, ideas become constipated when they're sealed away from other idea systems. The main thing going on in the 20th century is a dissolving of boundaries. All the boundaries that historical civilization put in place. I mean, what has the past thousand years been about except building class differences, race differences, sexual differences? We've had religious wars. We've had factionalism as how we relate to the world, with the final culmination being the dog-eat-dog vision of nature that we inherit from British natural science in the 19th century. Now, the new metaphor is fusion, union, cross-fertilization, dissolution of boundaries, melding into an enormous stew of virtual and interactive creativity. What this is all leading to, I believe, is what I call the Big Bang. I'm sorry, the Big Surprise. And as I describe it to you, the reason I said Big Bang is because I want you to remember as I describe this cosmogony to you what is stored somehow in the DNA. You remember there are vast segments of the DNA which do not appear to be dedicated to genetic transcription of proteins. These have always been dismissed by science, the so-called silent sequences. But the silent sequences may not be designed to be read by a ribosome to produce a protein. The silent sequences of DNA may be, in fact, encoded information of the sort of information you and I think of as information. And when the drug molecule fits in there, it broadcasts an expanded electron spin resonance signal off the molecule. And this is the psychedelic experience. It's being conducted into the Akashic memory banks where all this DNA-coded information is happening. The fact is that's pure speculation and there are many molecular biologists who would sneer at it. But they're not on as secure ground as they suppose. If there is one issue in the past 40 years that science has failed utterly to make any progress on, it's the question of memory.
 understands how it works, and the best models to date are completely inadequate to the data. So I believe the Dane is not in on this, and it would make a certain amount of sense, wouldn't it? The psychedelic experience sort of is like experiencing a vast blast of memory data. Those of you who have done it, have you noticed the weird, now I'm an infant again, aura that sometimes attends it? I mean, when I do DMT, I actually feel my body proportions become infantile. I feel my head get bigger and my legs shrink. I mean, it's only a part of the experience, you have to notice it, but it seems to me very suggestive that we are actually entering hyperspace. You are experiencing yourself your whole life, not just now, but back, back, back, back, back, back. There's lots of work to be done, yes. Does the intensity of DMT experience diminish when you take it with MAO inhibitors? Does the DMT experience diminish when you take it with MAO inhibitors? When you take it with MAO inhibitors, I would think that you might lock it in at a fairly high level of intensity. Yes, it does. It definitely does. Be sure you're prepared before you try that stuff. Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Other people I know have tried DMT and had ordinary, tricky experiences, e.g. aliens, doors opening. No one has tried these, no one has had these fast experiences you described. Could it all be in the mind, and you see these things because you have a wide scientific, academic background in your head already? Well, the thing about DMT is that it does make a certain demand of courage, and the leather-lunged smokers among us are in a superior position. The difference between one toke and two is enormous. The difference between two tokes and three is staggering. So, you have to push it. And I believe that it's quite safe. I mean, people say, is it dangerous? And you know my answer, only if you fear death by astonishment. But that's not a joke. Death by astonishment doesn't seem like such an unlikely proposition when you're out there. So, you know, you sort of have to gauge. A friend of mine once said of DMT, he said, every time I do it, I try to stand more. And that's what it's like, because ultimately it is going to overwhelm your intellectual machinery. If it doesn't blow it out in the first 30 seconds, it will blow it out later, because ultimately the mind fails. The descriptive apparatus melts. The measuring instruments are vaporized, and the thing is just what it is. So, you want to proceed carefully, but with courage. With courage. And if your friends tell you you're getting nutty, you should listen to them, because it does have a tendency to magnify inflationary images in the psyche. In other words, if you're not flawlessly solid, it will act like an X-ray of just where the fault lines lie in your particular world. This question is, do you believe that it is necessary to be in a certain mind space before entering a trip to give maximum effect? Well, I mean, it's very simple. It's six hours without food and silent darkness. Telephones unplugged. Comfortable, reassuring environment. That's all. It's not about tanks, and it's not about social situations like this, that are dense with noise, people, pheromones, social signaling. I mean, it would rip you apart, a really deep trip. I mean, let's not underrate cannabis, for crying out loud. I mean, I think cannabis should be the glue of the community. It's really important to go botanical. To be a botanical psychedelic. You see, the very best of the white powder drugs are still impossible to verify as to purity and source. So, it's just a fool's game. The plants will not play you false. So, I think that's very important. Do you think the industrial political system will be able to manipulate consciousness through technology via telemetry by plants, implants, and prevent our minds evolving and accepting the transcendental object? Well, this thing about fearing technology in any form, what you've got to understand is when you go into these places like Autodesk and Silicon Graphics and like that, you have the suits above the 20th floor, but everybody below the 20th floor has hair down to their asses, heavily tattooed, pierced, they're rocking. So, we own this technology. They do not understand it. You know, it was a miracle that Richard Nixon could erase 18 and a half minutes on a tape recorder and get it right. They have to pay us to run their technology. They can't write code. They can't run the nets. It belongs to us. And I see this trend simply accelerating. The technical community is by no means part of the opposition. The technical community is going to be there when we reach the barricades. What kind of music or sound, if any, would you use for DMT? And also, what does DMT sound like? What kind of music would I use with DMT? Well, I have done DMT with music, but I've regretted it nearly every time. I've done it with Locatelli's Violin Concerto No. 11. The reason these are not contempo deals is because I haven't done it with music for 30 years, because it alarmed me. I did it with Karl Heinz Stockhausen, and that really alarmed me. As far as what DMT sounds like, it sounds somewhat like this. And then, of course, that's the kind of sucking, pulling thing that happens as you tumble down these disystolic organismic hallways that are pulling and tugging you forward. And then, of course, you get in, at least for me, into what I call the L-pipe. And then there is, for me and for some people, I mean, it hits people differently. I saw a woman not long ago, it was very interesting, have the most amazing orgasm I've ever seen. And I've seen a lot of people do DMT, and this just left everybody's jaw hanging. This woman, a very nondescript sort of person, but she certainly got on. And she was saying during it, don't send me back. I can't leave you. I can't leave you. What happens to me, in reference to the sound thing, is language. I see elves, sort of, dribbling self-jeweled basketballs, but the main activity at the higher doses is that these autonomous machine elf soul creatures make objects with language. They, somehow, language in the DMT state is transduced through the eyes. You see syntax, and you are, in fact, impelled to join
 with them in these long, spontaneous bursts of language-like activity that sound sort of like this. You understand when I say it? I don't like this one. So what? So what? So what? So what? So what? So what holds us together or do we just let go? Will we become insane in the conventional sense? No. We'll redefine sanity. We'll carry the definition with us. This is what's insane. The city outside and the governments and the institutions. We won't become insane. We are awakening. This is what's happening. The long nightmare of human history that James Joyce talked about. We are awakening and the truth you think you see, the truth of your own intuition is the truth. You don't need somebody handing this stuff down from on high. You simply have to open your eyes. You know, if it looks like horseshit, if it talks like horseshit, if it walks like horseshit, it probably is horseshit. Do you think we will last the course of time and eventually create a common awareness factor, maybe? Or do you think we will destroy ourselves in our insensitive attitude towards the planet? Do we have enough time to... Pierce? Pierce something. Pierce something we haven't developed. Yeah, no, I'm an absolute optimist. I am absolutely certain as I stand before you that everything is on track. I mean, the mushroom has said, this is what it's like when a species prepares to depart for the galactic center. This is what planets come into existence for. This is, we are about to part ourselves from the placenta of three-dimensional space. Information is rearing itself up and preparing to take a step into another dimension. Everything is changing. Everything always has been changing. But now it is changing so quickly that within the confines of an individual life, the entire cosmic drama, it can be encapsulated. We are each fractal histories of the universe. It is within us as a community, as individuals. Nothing can stop this. This is not a political movement. This is as inevitable as continental drift or the sunspot cycle. It is now time to decamp from three-dimensional space. 15,000 years ago, it was time for the descent from the garden into history to take hold of the tools that will allow us to free our minds, our bodies, our planet, our identity, our destiny. This is what it's all been about. What chance do you think the city of America has to inspire American youth culture? You may double up. Well, we're fighting a mean war here, aren't we? We have to use the media to prosecute our agenda. The other side has all the guns, all the money. The only problem is if they win, everybody dies. So our friend is the information transfer network, the media. We have to set in motion means, models that will attract loyalty. Remember last year I quoted William Blake and I said, if the truth can be told so as to be understood, it will be believed. It's as simple as that. The obligation on us is to communicate the truth so that it is understood. The belief will take care of itself. And, you know, I'm all for this zippy thing. It's a high-stakes game because a stumble will delay the agenda. But I've been coming to Britain now for five or ten years, five years, and each time I've seen this scene expand, broaden, deepen, and I've seen its resolve coalesce. And I think it's now to take this thing on the road. You know, America's undergoing the illusion of a liberal administration. I think we need to strike at the great beast before loss of the politics, though. We're getting near the end. I have to tell you, afterwards we're going to have a Tibetan healing doctor upstairs in the techno silence suite. There'll also be Terence's latest book and some of the older ones last year. I mean, also, he'll probably be doing some signings after about 11.30. All right. Well, the coming is pretty fast. I'll take the millennium. We'll try the one with the millennium in the middle. You? I don't know what's up there. Invisible Landscape. It's all around you. Invisible Landscape is all around you. It's also out in America now, but I don't know if anybody's imported it into Britain yet. It is out. It's great. I'm very happy with it. I'm ready to retire at this point. My message is essentially done once that book is available. Yeah. Yeah, this is what I want to get behind. Your views seem to be typically millenarium. Millenniumism? They seem to be typically millenniumism, i.e. the year 2000 shapes consciousness. What do you think? I've often wondered. I want to get Terence to get down to the year 2000, not the year 2012, because I think we can't agree about the year 2000. What the hell are we ever going to agree about, you know? Well, I'm not so... If you look at the time wave, you'll see that the year 2000 is lined up with events in Christian history so hysterical that we might as well hand it over to...

Small Mouth Noises An Online Academic Journal, Inspired by Terence McKenna

Oh You You Small mouth noises You You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You are a monster and a demon. You

Terence McKenna - ''Nothing's Wrong'' - Weekend Workshop, May 1990

We will, I think, continue this kind of neurotic behavior until it either is our undoing or until we awaken to archaic values. That's why the weekend is called what it is. The archaic revival is a very large cultural wave that, you know, can be pushed. You can trace the beginnings of it, the first swell back to the turn of the century with relativity and theosophy and surrealism and the work of Freud and Jung on the unconscious. But it's a discovery, a moving toward a realization that the values that can serve us are archaic values, that we have to go completely outside of history. And we have to make, you know, we are going to find out the nature of human nature. We can't have it several ways. We can't live in obfuscation. I mean, the real question is, is man good? Because we're going to find out. Because as we move more and more into this cultural domain that I call the imagination, nothing lies between us and the expression of our dreams, you know. And so far, our dreams have been, I think, expressed fairly shoddily. I mean, you know, our cities are like sores. Our contribution to the ecosystem of the planet is plutonium, pesticides, chlorofluorocarbons, so forth and so on. An apologist for the human race would say, but we had so many strikes against us. The law of gravity, the cost of materials, the resistance of water, air, and so forth and so on. Well, fine. Then we're going to get rid of all that. We're going to enter into the imagination where, you know, the tensile strength of a structure is whatever you say it is. This is where language comes in. I think language is the sort of the CAD CAM, the computer-assisted drawing software for creating the reality of the imagination. I think it's a very, it's overwhelming, our situation, the potential and the depth of the strikes against us. I mean, it's really, I, what's going on on this planet is absolutely unique so far as we know. It's never happened before on this planet, intelligence emerging out of biological organization and actually having a shot at what? Who knows? I mean, being itself is some kind of opportunity. The reasonable expectation is that nothing exists. Why should anything exist? I mean, it seems to me the most conservative universe would be a dimensionless plenum, a homogenous, pointless, dimensionless. That makes sense. Why then is there instead, you know, multiplicity upon multiplicity? I mean, teenage mutant ninja turtles, stuff like that. How in the world do you get from utter emptiness to that kind of thing? The richness, the creative force behind it all is awesome. And I am not, I'm not religious in any ordinary sense, and in fact I'm violently anti-religious in most senses. I mean, I'm certainly, you know, would lead the charge against priestcraft in any form. But the picture of the universe as a machine subject to a few laws discovered by a bunch of guys in powdered wigs, that's ridiculous. I mean, you've got to be kidding. Science doesn't deal, as it's always a pains to point out, with what's called subjective experience. Well, that's really too bad, because that's all any of us ever have, is subjective experience. You know? So we have, in the interests of, I don't know what exactly, a curious drive, an obsession of the Greeks, really, an obsession with the physical world, that we have not been able to disentangle ourselves with, so that, you know, we can measure the temperature of distant stars, but we don't know what we think about the woman we're living with. Stuff like that. Just such a completely overgrown and overdeveloped dichotomous situation that it makes no sense. So in terms of any kind of conclusion or something like that, it's that there is an experience. It's harmless, meaning it can't kill you. That's the guarantee there. There is this experience. It is in our cultural heritage. It synergizes the most profound and private dimensions of our being. It allows us to recast ourselves in new forms, quickly. And if we don't turn back toward this style of relating to ourselves, to each other, and to the world, but persist instead in the addiction to syntactical abstraction, then I think we'll just run it off the edge. And it will be a tragedy, because it is a horse race. Don't let anybody kid you. It's not that the good guys are miles and miles behind, and so you just might as well tear your ticket up and throw it in the air and go home. No, it's an absolute horse race. Neck and neck, photo finish, race between education and disaster. We're going to either burst out into a millennium of freedom and caring and decency, or we're going to toxify the whole thing and just turn it into an ash heap. And the responsibility falls largely on us, and we don't know. And the momentum, the lethal momentum of these institutions is terrifying. Our position is like that of people who are attempting to turn a battleship 180 degrees, and we're doing it with an oar. The momentum of it is incredible. But it is not a closed system. I say this as a reasonable person. I want to keep stressing that, that I won't sit at the same table with the channelers and the people who have good news about Atlantis and all of this stuff. If this is your private thing, it's okay, but the rules of evidence preclude it being taken seriously until you get your act more together. But in the psychedelic experience, there is confounding paranormal material. It's the only place I've ever found it. I scoured India. These guys, as far as I can tell, it's a skin game. But outlandish things are going on inside the psychedelic experience. It seems to imply the thing we had hardly dared hope, which is that the world is whatever you say it is, if you know how to say it right. And then the whole task becomes, how do we take control of this language that allows us to say it right? We, I think I speak for most people here, serve the idea that matter is ultimately at the command of mind, but we need to move that forward as a demonstrable principle. Because without that, the fear of most people is that we're imprisoned by physics in a sinking submarine. And yet when you go into these psychedelic spaces, what you discover is that all bets are off. We can't even tell how weird it is. I mean, it may be possible to walk to Arturas if you have the right set of coordinates. The whole concern is to get the word out, to spread this meme, to empower people to confirm the existence of these realities for themselves, and to begin to form a kind of community consensus about it. You know, it's only, I guess, in 1992 we will celebrate the 500th anniversary of the discovery of the new world. 500 years ago, people discovered the other half of this planet, and we're living there now. This is the new world. 500 years ago, this didn't exist. What existed was a vast...
 cataract patrolled by sea monsters, and the oceans of the world poured off this cataract into the infinite abyss, and that was the edge of the world. We, the psychedelic people, are like these early explorers, coming back and saying, you know, I sailed west for sixteen days and I didn't go mad. Instead, this is what happened, and I bring news of this, this, and this. And what we're accumulating are like the diaries of explorers. But there's a world there. It's a mental world, yes, but we are mental creatures. Take note of that. If we could go there, we would go there. And the thing is, we don't know that we can't go there. We have never taken the imagination seriously. We have never taken the self-management of culture seriously. We've always sort of thought things should just go along like a random walk. But now, because of the immense technical power that's come into our hands, the design process of the whole planet is now on our desk, and we're being asked to essentially step into stewardship of the entire planetary environment. We have to have then a vision. We have to have a dream, not a vision or a dream, the vision, the dream. And it can't come from the personality of individual human beings. It has to come out of the bones of the planet. Yeah. And this is, I think, what the psychedelic experience is broadcasting. It's broadcasting the hologrammatic, fractal, altogether, all-at-once image of totality that our religions have sensed and called God, that the shaman have learned to use as a vast kind of computer for extracting information and for generating healing energy. But it is that there is some kind of controlling, minded, integrated thing behind nature. And we're not going to understand that this weekend, next week, or ever. This is not a relationship of solving a problem. It's a relationship of being an initiate of a mystery and then living your life in the light of that. And the task of understanding is endless, because understanding is simply the integrated coordination of pattern. And nature is pattern upon pattern upon pattern upon pattern upon level upon level. It has no depth. Its measure cannot be taken. Everything is infinite, and everything is animate, and everything is filled with a kind of deep concern for humanity. I mean, we are the lame little brother, because we seem to be cut off from all the rest of this. Well, that's kind of a Blakey and take on it. The shamanistic cultures themselves have a notion of a fall. And this may just be the people that we happen to interview in our era where we're actually studying it, but that the old days of shamanism were the good days, and what we have now is diluted. Is that just a matter of cultural contact with other cultures, and that the original shamanistic cultures were isolated? Or is indeed there a different quality to the time of this 20,000 years ago that led to a general fall amongst other species of people in general? It's a very complicated question. The answer gets pretty technical, or talking about it gets pretty technical. The thing that's so interesting about psilocybin and DMT is that they're so closely related to ordinary brain chemistry. The brain chemistry of all higher animals runs largely on serotonin. Serotonin is 5-hydroxytryptamine. DMT is N,N-dimethyltryptamine. Psilocybin is 4-phosphoryloxy, N,N-dimethyltryptamine, but the phosphoryloxy group goes off as it crosses the blood-brain barrier, so it's 4-hydroxy, N,N-dimethyltryptamine. So it's very interesting that these powerful naturally occurring hallucinogens are in many cases only one molecule away from endogenous neurotransmitters. So in answer to your question, it's possible to suggest that we're as close as one mutation away from significant shifts in the chemical mix of the human brain. And, for instance, in the pineal gland, there's an enzyme called adenoglomerotropine, which is chemically 6-methoxytetrahydroharmelan. It's very closely related to the harmine alkaloids in ayahuasca. Well, the persistent myth about ayahuasca is that it creates states of group-mindedness and telepathy. The original alkaloid was actually named telepathine until it was discovered that it was structurally similar to harmine, which had been previously described by Hochstein and Paradis. So, in other words, what's going on here is the possibility that language, telepathy, and all of these mental abilities that are unique among human beings have to do with a very, very small number of mutations in the brain amine production pathways. One of the things that I want to talk about here is the possibility of new forms of communication and that the psychedelics can stimulate new forms of communication among human beings, even in the way that they created language in the first place. In other words, I see language as a Model A version of something which could be made a lot more efficient and better and effective. You had something, or did you? You, go ahead. When humankind changes direction and goes towards the altered state, and that projection, what do you think that we will do with science and all of the stuff that we've created that is destroying us? Well, science, there are different ways to practice science. The Greek style was, science was a spiritual undertaking. The purpose was to know, the idea being that somehow there was something good about knowing. I mean, I had a philosophy professor who said, first of all, I'll teach you how to recognize the truth. Secondly, I'll try to teach you what's so great about it. And this is that kind of a situation. Philosophers of science are perfectly aware of the limitations of science. It's the thousands and thousands of workbench scientists who think of themselves as servants of a world religion who create the problem. We need to know how matter works, and we need to know the things which science tells us, but it has no basis for extrapolating into human values. And the culprit there is the concept of social science. This is an obscene idea, and we should disabuse ourselves of it immediately. Social science, psychology, intellectual history, even linguistics, I would say, and philology, all of this stuff. These people should find honest work. They're not scientists, and they're mucking up. I mean, it was a grand dream of science that it would extend its methods into social phenomena, having had such great success in the 19th century with Darwin and Wallace in biology. They thought, well, Lenin, Herbert Spencer, and all these people, why not just extend it into society? But the problem is there are emergent properties in society that exceed the descriptive engines of science. There are emergent properties in biology.
 I mean, biology is not... may also have to be left out of science. I mean, biology is classificatory, and it works very well there, but in terms of mechanism and understanding, it's pretty murky. DNA was decoded in 1950. The molecular geneticists promised a golden age shortly to follow, and it's 40 years later, and they still don't understand gene expression or what all this stuff is in the DNA. It's been very disappointing, considering what was promised. I think science is an art. Everything is an art, because we have no sure knowledge of anything. I mean, maybe mathematics is not an art, because there, you know, you work from artificially constructed premises. I'm very much very keen on science. I just don't like its philosophical pontifications. As a method, it's been very effective, but it's bred great pride in it, and it's thought that it could turn itself to domains where it was completely inappropriate. Yeah. I have a lot of questions, but I want to try to limit them to maybe a few, one or two. I haven't tried mushrooms yet. I sent away the kitten, I'm going to ground it. But a lot of the things that you've been explaining and describing, to me, have become a reality over the last year. Just the usage of hashish, just ingestion of it, on a very, I have to say, a very, well, probably limited, because I'm comparing my experience to the psilocybin descriptions that you give, and they sound, you know, tremendous. I think the question I'm looking for is, before you, I guess, got involved with psilocybin and DMT and things like that, were you predisposed to saving the planet and being a humanistic type of person? When did the DMT and psilocybin take, or did it take you to a more profound awareness of what you, as a human, wanted to do? Well, I've thought about all of this, because it's weird to have the life I have. You know, it's so strange, I mean, until I went into therapy, I thought I had the most ordinary family in the world, and then once you're in therapy, you discover, you know, that no, it was the most insane scene you've ever heard of, and you just didn't notice. But I've always been interested in nature, and I've always been interested in beauty, and I think it was the pursuit of beauty that served me best, because when I was a kid, first I started out collecting rocks, and then I collected butterflies, and then in my emergent phallic phase, I was an amateur rocketeer, and the major thrill there was setting off these explosive fuels and watching the possibility of shrapnel and all this stuff. And then as I got into rockets, I got into science fiction, and science fiction I really consider a proto-psychedelic drug, because what science fiction does is it gives permission to imagine. It says, try it this way, this way, this way, and then you get, as a kid, you get the idea, you know, that anything is possible, that's what science fiction teaches you. And then, and I was really obsessive about science, and I wanted to be an astronautical engineer, and Wernher von Braun was my hero and all that, and then it sort of flipped at some point, and I got in, and I decided that I had been terribly narrow, and I was figuring all this out for myself, I was in some little town in Colorado, and I decided I'd been terribly narrow, and that it was all in the humanities, and I began reading Henry James and all this stuff, and I was into Aldous Huxley, as an example of an English novelist, and read Antiquated Chrome Yellow, after many a summer must die of a swan, and so forth and so on, and then came upon The Doors of Perception, and just, you know, I was like 14 years old, and it was astonishing, and I said, if a tenth of this is true, then this is the most amazing thing there is. Well, if you've read The Doors of Perception, you know, it's actually a terribly conservative gloss, I mean, it's all about looking at pictures, and seeing the ischite in the folds of your trousers, and thinking about how that relates to Meister Eckhart, and all this Huxley-type stuff, but that gave me the idea, and then I stuck with it, I stuck with it somehow, and found marijuana, and that went on to LSD, and then my great good fortune, I think, is that, just a few months after I took LSD, somebody brought me DMT, and, you know, DMT is a miracle, I mean, DMT is like something that fell out of a flying saucer, I mean, it is so strong, and so psychedelic, I mean, I can't imagine being more smashed than that, or wanting to be, I mean, it's more like a near-death experience than any near-death experience I ever heard anybody describe, they sound absolutely pedestrian compared to a DMT trip, where, you know, you're sure you're dead, you say, what the hell else could it be, you know? And then I went to Asia, I was at Berkeley, when I had all these drug experiences, and then I went to Asia, and tried to find it with yogas, and all that, and ended up smoking a lot of hashish, and becoming more cynical than ever about spirituality, and just saying, you know, hashish and LSD, that was, before I went to the Amazon, that was what I discovered that really convinced me you could get somewhere, was, you know, take a bunch of LSD and then smoke great hash on top of that, and really crazy things do go on. And then I went to the Amazon, and, you know, incredible shamanism is happening there, I mean, they don't hold back. The method I used in India was, I would just say, you know, what can you show me? You know, I've read all these books, I know how to manipulate all this multisyllabic mumbo-jumbo, but just one thing, and he said, oh no, he's not even very pushy. So, but then when you go to South America, then they just say, okay, let's go out in the forest, we'll get the stuff, we'll cook it up, and tonight we'll show you our best trick. And it slams you to the wall, I mean, you plead for mercy. And, and it was a vindication, because the thing I want to stress, and I don't know if it's as important to you as it is to me, but you do not have to sell out to any form of airheadism. You can be as tight-assed as you want, you can be as hard-nosed as you want, you can be as demanding, analytical, rational as you want, and the thing is bigger than you are. It'll just take you apart, it'll make you weep like a baby. So there's nothing about faith and sensitivity and reaching, and no, no, no, when it comes, you know, it kicks in the front door and takes you prisoner. It's, so, and that was what the flying saucer meant when it said, because you didn't believe in anything, this is the way to get somewhere. You'll never get anywhere if you believe in stuff, because, you know, it'll take you six months to work through Babaji, and then you have to go on to somebody else, and life is just not long enough to give all these guys a crack at your enlightenment. So, you know, you sort of have to goose it along. And the great vindication is then that when you behave like that, when you take that stance, which you would expect would betray you into nihilism, depression, and so forth. Instead, no, that works, that's the method. Then the gold, you know, reject everything but gold. And you know what gold is? It looks like gold, it feels like gold. It's not something that you have to, you know. I mean, I'm amazed at what thin soup is dished out as spiritual food. And it's because we are, as individuals, conflicted, you know. I feel this in myself. I mean, it's hard to take psychedelics. It's not hard to sweep up around the ashram, but it's hard to take psychedelics. You know, I read some stuff by Andrew Weil, where he was talking about going in search of, you know, the ayahuasquero, the curandero, and he talks a lot.
 about these guys that are mixing up this sloppy brew, and they're drunks, and they're just, you know, I don't, I don't even know if you could go down to the Amazon and find, I don't know what you could find. I haven't been there, but it does, it, what his accounts were is there's a lot of just slop and drunk stuff happening. Most of these, a lot of these guys are alcoholics, you know. No, you're absolutely right. And that's the main thing happening, was the alcohol throughout, just, and the Christianities just kind of pervaded so much of this stuff that I, I wonder what's left and how you find it anymore. Well, it really helps to do your homework. It really helps to go down there knowing as much as you possibly can about all this meaning. Because apparently so much of what you get out of it has to do with how it's made. That's right. Who makes it, how it's mixed. That's right. And so on, and if you don't make it yourself and you don't know what's happening, then what have you got? Because ayahuasca is a combinatory drug, it isn't like peyote or mushrooms or morning glories where you get the thing and eat it, and if you eat it in sufficient amounts it works. This is something where two plants have been combined, and the proportions must be correct, and the method must be correct. So there's a huge room for personalities to come into it, for fast shuffles of all sorts, and mind games of all sorts to take place. But apparently these guys, a lot of them are very egotistical, too. It's true. No, what you have to do if you're into ayahuasca, or what we did, was we just, first of all we drank a huge amount of swill, and we worked our way slowly through these people. And if somebody appeared to be an asshole, they were so classified and moved on. And eventually we got to good people. But what we did then was we got samples of their stuff, brought it back, put it through mass spectrophotometers and high-pressure liquid chromatography, saw what the proportions were, collected the live plants, moved them to Hawaii, grew the plants, re-concocted the thing, re-mass-spect what we did, and made it as much like the good stuff as possible. So it was a project of 15 years and really maniacal dedication. But I have the faith, you know, I mean, that if given sufficient time to work on ayahuasca, you could produce a drug out of there so good that it would be ludicrous to suggest that it was illegal. I mean, because, you see, this is brain soup. These are all neurotransmitters. There's not a non-endogenous neurotransmitter in the whole beverage. So really what you're... There's not a what? A non-endogenous neurotransmitter, meaning everything in this drug that you're about to drink is already in your head. There's nothing unusual where drugs like ketamine, mescalinella, there's none of that in your body. So what's it like? What's the trip like? It's like a slow-release DMT trip. It lasts four to six hours and it's intensely visual and unlike psilocybin, it's not... it doesn't have this outer space, science fiction, mega-apocalyptarian kind of take on it, which is what psilocybin does. I mean, psilocybin shows you the machines preparing to transport the faithful away from a burning earth. That's not what ayahuasca is about. It's about nature, water, flow, life, energy. It's almost, you know, when MDMA was so hot and people called it an empathy drug and said it makes you empathetic with the people you're with. Ayahuasca makes you empathetic with the people you're not with and that's a much more profound experience because there's so much more of them. I don't understand how you mean that, empathetic with the people you're not with. I don't quite get it. You feel the poignancy of the human situation. You feel... well, see, I'm usually in a hut somewhere surrounded by a bunch of Indians and suddenly I understand what the songs are about and they're always about the same thing. They're about the water and the people and the life and the fish and lost love, but you have this heart-opening thing. You say, you know, the folk, this is their mystery. This is their... I'm getting it now. I'm feeling this huge wave of the wisdom of the folk and they say this to you in Peru. They say, you know, this is our university. You went to Harvard, we went to Ayahuasca. Yeah. I'm wondering if you can comment on morning, rather, ginseng weed, which I believe is the same thing as morning chlorocetes. No, it's different. But I'm curious about ginseng weed because it grows wild all over. It's on the property, it's down the highway. It's toxic also. It's quite toxic. It's used shamanically in pre-contact California. The California Indians had what was called the Tolatch religion and they used ginseng weed seeds to initiate people at puberty, boys mostly. I'm kind of Pollyannish about drugs. I mean, I don't... I'm after a certain thing which these tryptamine hallucinogens do and I tend to not pursue these other things too far. I didn't like Datura. It's very hard to have the degree of clarity that I think you should have on a drug. The tryptamine hallucinogens don't interfere with your clarity at all. You know who you are, where you are, what you're doing. I've seen people on Datura. I had an experience with someone on Datura where in the course of the conversation it came out that the guy thought we were in his apartment and I had actually encountered him in the marketplace. Well, that's a serious delusion. That's a serious problem. When I took Datura, all this was in Nepal years ago, I did have peculiar experiences. I mean, it is magical. It is delusory. Reality begins to come apart. These wraith-like, ghost-like creatures would come through my window and I was waiting to get high and then I would sort of... my attention would drift and these things would come through my window and they would let loose these sheets of newsprint that would flutter down over my lap and I would like fall forward reading these things that were... and as I read, amazement would grow in me and say, this is it. This is the answer. This is it. And then I would pull out and say, is it working? Is anything happening? And that went on. There were several passes of that. And then it caused me to like throw my leg up around my neck and I got into this kind of thing and I very carefully unfolded myself and lay back down and then it happened again and I thought to myself, you know, I'm really glad I'm alone because I think this would freak anybody out. And so I... but it was definitely strange. I mean, the guy down the hall from me, I had taken it, he had taken it and he was sitting there and he was sitting there and he had the impression in the night that this woman that he was scheming on came to him and that they made love. And in the middle of the night, I got up to go to the john and I had to cross through his room and it was also my impression that she was in bed with him. Well, when we sorted it out the next morning, she'd been 30 miles away throughout the whole incident and had never been there. So it's interesting. There are a lot of altered states, maybe that's a good point to make. There are all kinds of strange states of mind and many plant-induced. From sorting through them, I've just become sort of fixated on these tryptamine things because they seem to me somehow the most promising and the most real. The hallucinations of Jimson Weed are curiously related in my mind. It's some kind of association schema. They're like seances and table tapping and Victorian women in shredded lace dresses. That's about as far from a DMT hallucination as you can get DMT hallucinations are three if not four dimensional, brightly colored, high-tech, organo-insectoid so forth and so on. We talked about the momentum is so strong and then having to change it.
 And like I think of all the people that are opposed to drugs and they think every drug is the same and so forth. It just seems like an impossible task to be able to educate where these drugs would be available and then people could take them and they'd see the world in a healthier way. What do you have to say about a question like that? Well, it's this struggle about human nature, defining human nature, you know. Is it good to take certain drugs? Is it always bad to take drugs? Can you always tell a drug from a food, from a spice? What do these words really mean? All we can do is what we are doing, which is replicate the meme. Hold these workshops, try to build a core of consensus about what we're talking about. And this is itself quite elusive, you see, because what we're talking about is a mental event. It's less focused than, let us say, orgasm. But even if you're talking about orgasm, here we use this word, but it must mean something different to everybody. Well, it's even, the problem is much worse with the psychedelic experience, because nobody wants to be left out. So anybody who's ever taken anything thinks they've had the psychedelic experience and feels fully qualified to hold an opinion on it, when in fact it's pretty elusive, the real thing. You have to take a heroic dose under the right conditions to really smash through. I mean, yes, there are all kinds of approaches to it, insight into childhood trauma, recovery of lost memories, opening to your emotional side, insights into the dynamics of the life and people around, all of it. But that is not anywhere near the bullseye. That's just dancing around the rim of it. So we have to, as a community, try and build consensus about what happens at the real center. What's happening at the center of the mandala? What kind of a modality can we describe and create a shared map of that we can come back to the rest of the folks and talk about? And then the other thing is, well, I'm just banking on curiosity to do a lot of the footwork for the revolution. This is too good to miss. You know, it's like placing sex off limits or something and then expecting people not to find out about it. Now that Marxism has collapsed, if we don't substitute something for consumer values, then we're just going to rape the earth in an effort to create crap for everybody. Well, the only counterpoise to consumer values, to materialism, is spiritualism. And I don't mean some bloodless carol singing kind of Namby Pamby abstraction. I mean there has to be as much inner richness as there previously was outer richness. And this is why, to the alarm of some people, I've been fairly interested in virtual realities. Because I think, you know, if everybody wants to live in Versailles, the only way you're going to be able to do that is if you make Versailles a disk for 395 that they can plug in and then go live in it. So we can't preach to the have-nots the virtue of voluntary simplicity when we're riding around in BMWs and collecting moneys. That doesn't make a lot of sense. So building a core consensus, this is still an answer to your question, what can we do? And then replicating the meme. And I introduce this concept in each of my workshops because I think it makes it easier for you to understand what's happening here. A meme is the smallest unit of an idea. It's like a gene is to proteins. Proteins are made by genes and genes code for proteins. Okay, well ideas are made out of memes. And you link a few memes together and you have an idea. Memes, like genes, can be replicated. You replicate them by either telling the meme to many people or telling a lot of people all at once. And then these people you've told, they become potential replicators of the meme. And there is a domain of culture that is like an environment of competing ideas. And the memes go off and live in this ideological environment. And some flourish and some are consumed by others and some are incorporated into others. And the idea is to keep the psychedelic meme alive and to make it grow and to allow its claim to be heard. It's not in danger of dying. It's a very persistent meme. It's been around for about 20,000 years and it's been highly repressed in many cultures for the last couple of thousand years. Yet we're trying to rebirth it. So thinking about it that way, thinking of yourself as a replicator of this thing which wishes to move through society, gives a mechanical model for understanding what is really ideological war, you know? A war about the definition of human nature. That's what's at stake. What shall we become? What can we become? There's no question that we need a greater consciousness of who we are. And if psychedelic drugs are to be taken seriously at all as consciousness-expanding agents, then they have to be given their due place in the great dialogue that's taking place about the future creating it and then realizing it, the future of the species. I wanted to say something further about the book of Genesis and the notion of getting to the center. There are two cherubims guarding the gate with the flaming swords and that they represent a pair of opposites, fear and desire. And the part of the problem of getting a bite of that tree of immortal life is getting to the realm beyond a pair of opposites, beyond fear and desire. And the other related thing is the question of why this world is not one of just homogeneous perfection and instead a world of multiplicity of forms and conflicts. And it's from a drop of ignorance that spills into undifferentiated perfection and from that one drop of ignorance proceeds the multiplicity of the world we experience. This is a Gnostic idea, the drop of ink in the pure glass of water. Yeah, well Gnosticism was the idea, I mean it had many forms, but the basic idea was that light had been scattered through the universe and that the task of salvation was to gather this light together and to somehow transmit it back to its source in some higher dimension, which is a pretty good metaphor. One of the issues that comes up in these workshops inevitably, and I confess I don't have a real answer for this, is are we a part of nature and the stewards of nature? Or are we out of nature? Are we of another ontos and sculpted for a different destiny? It's very clear that the life of the planet and our success as a conscious species, these two things have to either be split away from each other or one is going to be the undoing of the other. And this is a real problem. This problem haunts Western thinking. It's nothing new. Is nature God or is nature the devil? I mean that's the harshest statement of this problem. One of the ways of detecting breast cancer is with thermography, where they look for a hot spot on the breast and that's a suspicious area. And I think when I'm up in an airplane at night and I look down on Gaia, I think of this as an organism, a giant organism, and say, gee, there's a cancer down there. It's hot. You can see it. It's glowing. And you go down there and what you find...
 is, if you look upon us as sort of the thing, the cells which have gone awry, and the way in which we've gone awry is the nature of our consciousness, in that it's focused in terms of time and space and causality, and then the thumb, the prehensile, the ability to do something about it, because I don't know for sure, but I imagine that the dolphins could have their consciousness with a sense of time, and they might have some of the same time, space, causality understanding of the physical world that we do, but they lack the ability to do anything about it. To project force into the world. So that, given those two qualities, this quality of our minds to look upon the world through, in this way, time, space, and causality, and that thumb, we have become the cancer on the organism of the earth. Well, see, I mean, I... It's quite a negative thought. It is negative, and I'm not sure that I buy into it, and I'm not sure that I don't buy into it either. This is the question. Is the evolution of historical society, and science, and all the ugly adumbrations of that, sexism, fascism, racism, is that part of the process, or is it a breaking away? Is there some good in it? Was history for something, or would we have just been better off without it? And I don't know. Sometimes, I mean, I think of Western civilization as the prodigal son. You know, we went forth, we left our father's house, which was the archaic style of existence. We left our father's house, and we wandered into matter, and cut deals with demonic forces, and millennia have passed, and now the earth is polluted, and we are back at the long house, saying to these people, do you have any wisdom that can save us from our fate? Well, they do, to a degree. I mean, they have this deep insight into natural dynamics, and curing, and maybe more. I mean, maybe there is magic in this world, but we know some things, too. I mean, we can summon the energy of the stars, if necessary, down to the deserts of this planet, or to the cities of our enemies, if necessary. And this is no small accomplishment on any scale. This is quite impressive. I mean, my God, that cytoplasm could create a strategy for triggering fusion? It's amazing. So I would like to think that this peregrination into matter went for something, that these are skills that we may need out in the universe when we really get our wings and take off. And that this deep involvement with matter, it was a kind of an addiction, and if we can pull out of it, a great deal has been learned. I mean, after all, if people had stayed in the rainforests, then we would have been ineluctably linked to the destiny of this planet as an animal species. And what if this is the only intelligence in the universe? Then I would think we have a certain obligation to preserve it, past the life of the existence of the solar system. So if we're not willing to commit ourselves at any phase of our evolution to a technical phase that involves mastery over matter, then we have no more defense against the larger universe than raccoons and katydids, if push comes to shove. I don't know. I mean, I stress that there's no easy resolution on this. It haunts all thinking about conservation. I mean, I thought throughout the 80s, why aren't the conservationist space colony enthusiasts? Why don't the save-the-world people support the high-tech solutions that would move industry off the planet? Why are these various factions unable to make common cause behind a very large vision? And I don't know, but I think as pressure mounts for solutions, this will have to be done. I mean, I would like to live in a world where the entire Earth was a bio-reserve. I would like to live in a situation where the idea that there would be heavy industry inside the bio-reserve would be thought an abomination. All that stuff can be done on the moon or in the asteroid belts. It's as inappropriate as having a nuclear power plant in the middle of a rainforest to have heavy industry on the surface of the Earth. But we need to think on very large time scales, and we need to figure out how to create political machinery to do that. We've been living a potlatch existence, just a frenzied consumerist kind of unthinking abuse. And I think the best inoculation for that style of life is a stiff dose of psychedelics. You can't evade it. It dissolves boundaries. It puts you... It allows you to feel what you're doing. I mean, the level of denial in this society is incredible. God, we don't feel it. We read the newspaper, but we don't feel what it's telling us. Because if we felt it, we would probably be an emotional wreck. But there's something to be said for opening up to some of that. There's a notion in therapy that if you want the client to actually make progress, you raise the alarm level. A guy comes to you for therapy, you say to him, you think you've got problems? You have no idea what problems you have. And then work from there. So it's very serious business. It's trying to steer a society back toward a faith that was lost. I mean, God is like a lost continent in the human mind. And it's the only continent where there is safe harbor in the present historical situation. Well, why don't we knock off and we'll meet at four o'clock. Thanks very much. Well, I'll just say a little bit about myself and how I relate to this. I don't really like to talk about it in those terms, but since this is the getting to know each other thing, it's very important to what I understand that everybody else understand that there's nothing special about it or me. In other words, for what I'm trying to do to make sense, this access to this transcendental realm has to be democratically available. It can't depend on your spiritual accomplishment or your mastery of a technique or something like that. It isn't like that. It's something that is as much a part of us as ordinary people, as our sexuality is. And sexuality is not something that is dispensed by gurus. It's just something you figure out and do. And this is much more along those lines. How I explain to myself what I'm doing in this position is that I was just simply incredibly lucky, incredibly fortunate to be at certain places at certain times when they were handing out the good stuff. And then I see you in the same way. Someone over here, Fred, said he was looking for the answer to the mystery of life. Well, the weird thing about taking that position is that you can fall into positions where you find it, where you find the answer. And I sort of feel like that's the situation that the deep plant psychedelic community is in. It's a sense of having found the answer, and now the task changes. It's a completely different kind of spiritual universe that you live in after you've found the answer, because the task becomes facing the answer, facing it. You now have it. It's no more about disciplining the passions and all that. No, no. It's now been handed over. And so what are you going to do with it? And this is, to my mind, in a way,
 the problem and the challenge that we face globally as a species. You know, if the Holy Grail of the Western mind was the ability to release energy and form matter and to control nature, then this is now achieved, the goal. So now the whole context of the problem changes. And the problem becomes changing our own minds, controlling the hand that controls the energy. And this is an entirely different kind of problem. It is not to be solved with the analytical knife plunged again and again into the body of nature. That whole approach is seen to be at best pass, at worst bankrupt. So instead it's about trying to edge up close to nature and feeling as individuals and as a society very peculiar about this. You know, it's like going back to your rape victim and pleading for their forgiveness. And yet, as I've tried to make sense of these psychedelic experiences, first in a general way, saying, you know, what are these molecules for? Or is that a proper question to ask? What are they doing for the plant? What are they doing for me? As I've tried to come to terms with what this might all be about, I've come more and more back to the notion that it all lies in the plants. That our peculiar restlessness, which in modern circumstances has evolved into a rapacious appetite for addictive substances of all sorts, our peculiar inappropriateness in all contexts. So we are not quite simply complex mammals. We are certainly not angels. And we just seem to occupy a very uncomfortable place in the hierarchy of creation. I think this has to do with the fact that we are the traumatized inheritors of a dysfunctional relationship, a relationship that grew dysfunctional in the last 15,000 to 25,000 years. And what we call history is the fall out of a dynamic, here-and-now, feeling-toned relationship with our environment and into this anticipation of the future, worry about the past, basically ego. And I recently spoke in New York, and New York is a very nuts-and-bolts kind of town, and people there took issue with the notion that all of our problems can be boiled down to a single problem. If you trace the thread of every screw-up back into the maze, it all comes back to a single issue, which is excess of ego. We all have excess of ego. And our entire situation, legalistic, psychological, religious, everything is about this, that it doesn't work. It's maladaptive, and yet we have it. And why do we have it if it's maladaptive? If it doesn't promote human values, then how in the hell did it get started, and what is it that's maintaining and sustaining it? Well, this is what I want to talk about over the course of the weekend. When I pushed the analysis of what the psychedelic experience meant to the limits, I was surprised to discover that it left the domain of my personal relationship to the mystery. You know, what is it, what does it want from me, what is it trying to say? All that had to also make room for another issue, which is there's a political issue here. I think most people in this room, most people who have had the psychedelic experience, will agree that the most profound, the most open-hearted, the most moving moments of their lives, some of them have been tied in with those experiences. But we seem unable or unwilling or afraid to extrapolate that conclusion to the notion that this is a general panacea for society, because we cannot conceive that the solution to a spiritual dilemma could lie in matter. In other words, we ourselves have been infected by the inside-outside matter-spirit dichotomies of the dominator culture. But the notion that man, notice the gender thrust here, the notion that man could somehow bootstrap himself to Godhead without reference to nature seems to me highly peculiar, and simply nothing more than an expression of hubris, pride, a belief that we can do it our way and alone. So, all of this is very... the shelf-life is short on all of these issues, because the planet is in a state of terminal crisis. Does that have anything to do with the psychedelic experience? Or are these separate issues? How can they be separate issues if the psychedelic experience is a mirror of the state of the individual and collective psyche, and if the planet is on a collision course with some kind of terminal crisis? It seems to me, then, that what... you know, nature is struggling to right this disequilibrated planetary ecosystem. So, in a sense, there is nothing to be done except to watch and wait. But on the other hand, we are not apart from nature. We are, in some sense, a portion of nature which is the most reactive and energetic, because we are reactive and energetic in the domain of epigenetic codes. We can foment rapid change. Until recently, it was a truism of thinking about society that all change had to be gradual. This myth has now been exploded. We know that, you know, you just take them all out and hang them, and then that's not gradual, and then you've got a new world. And this has been done in several places with excellent success recently. So change need not be gradual. And, in fact, I think we're entering into a historical domain where very little change will be gradual. Gradual change was a luxury of the past. Well, how to come to terms with these processes, patterns forming and reforming in our lives, in our relationships, in our families, in our businesses, in the extended relationships we have with people. What is needed, you see, is a kind of collective breakthrough in our perception. I was thinking in the hot tub today that the most politically potent thing you can do for somebody is to educate them, to give them the facts. The facts are now so horrifying, and the means of delivering the facts so effective that there is no excuse for everyone not beginning to act in an informed manner. And I think this is happening. For instance, a few months ago I was in Belize, which is an extremely poor country, a little chip of land in the armpit of the Yucatan that used to be British Honduras. I didn't know there were countries this funky in the West.
 hemisphere. I thought you had to go, you know. They have the fortune, good or ill, of speaking English as a national language. So when the British left, they just simply pointed dishes to the sky and they get 270 channels of American television. It has completely educated the entire population of the country into an extremely sophisticated strategy for surviving in the real world of the present moment. They understand that their only resource is their nature, so they have made the entire country into a nature reserve. They understand that tourism is their only hope, and that for tourism to work, they must halt the destruction of their environment. This informing people at distant points of the value systems operating at the centers where values are being created allows people to position themselves for success. I mean, a lot is being lost. You cannot pretend that the situation we're in is unambiguously rosy. It isn't. It's extremely complicated. Marxism dissolves. What does this mean? It means that now 21 language groups and 16 tribal groups are open to exploitation, homogenization, leveling of cultural values. Everybody will be turned into a kind of white bread-consuming citizen in a beige fascist world. And this is the alternative to Armageddon. We hail this as a great step forward. What is happening is that all restrictions are being done away with against the expression of completely rapacious drives for immediate self-gratification. Until 18 months ago, only half the world had permission to behave like assholes. Now this permission is being extended to everyone as quickly as possible as a right, you know, your right to join in the looting of the planet. Well, certainly Stalinism is a bad thing. But is the only ideological counterpoise to that to be high tech, mindless, consumer fascism? I don't think so. In fact, I know not because there isn't enough metal in the planet to put a Volvo in every driveway of three and a half billion or four billion people. So the search for a serious revolution in values is on. It cannot, it must come from the spiritual realm. And the spiritual realm in practical terms means the imagination. The frontier of our species is the imagination. Now we have to take that slogan and somehow turn it into a technology. How can we go to the place where ideas come from? How can we somehow separate our architectonic fantasies from the ongoing momentum of the planet? Both are valid, you see. But we have to recognize that what we are is almost an ontological transformation of life. We are to life what life is to the inorganic realm. And we need to separate ourselves from the planet. The planet, the entire planet, should be a bio-reserve. How many of these oxygen-rich, water-heavy worlds are there? Now, of course, it's pie in the sky to talk about moving all heavy industry into space, or to the asteroid belt, or something like that. But on the other hand, when you extrapolate a visionless future, even as much as three or four decades into the future, you see the accumulation of problems on such a scale that then there will be no pulling out of the power dive. Because once a society passes a certain point in the process of dissolution, you just don't make a decision to change. I mean, it's too late. You don't have the engineering skills, you don't have the technical community, you don't have the resource extraction ability. It's all slipped through your fingers. Well, I think psychedelics are catalysts to thought, to imagination, to understanding. And we are like somebody who has been dead drunk while the house was burning down around us. And now we have awakened to the sound of falling timbers and the smell of smoke. And we have a certain limited amount of time to figure this situation out. We don't have 500 years or 100 years. Anybody who speaks in terms of solutions that require 100 years or even 50 years to implement doesn't understand the dynamics of the situation. History has some kind of will for its own transcendence. And I think we are now so close to the dropping of the mask and the realization of what the game was all along that the sense of this nearby revelation informs all of our lives. I mean, drives our dreams, our thoughts, the choices we make, why we're here in this room this evening. It's very big news, I think. The world is not at all as we suppose it to be. I find that very amazing. I mean, that's the bottom line for me. I always think of these things in reference to that scene in 2001 when the anthropoid apes are leaping up and down and screaming and pointing at the monolith. That's what we're doing here in this room. I mean, the subject of this weekend is unspeakable. It can only be obliquely indicated. Whatever you say about it is not true. And yet it is somehow the informing mystery of being, and it is not remote. That's the big news. That the previous human model, which is that we are all poor, groveling sinners, and that gnosis will trickle down to us from the wonderful folks up on top of the steep building nearby where they're conducting mysterious business with liver readings and stargazing. That model is insufficient and insulting considering the situation we have been brought to by those very stargazing men wearing dresses. So I think what we have to do now is just take the machinery into our own hands. It's a matter of personal responsibility to find out what the world is really doing, what it is. What do you think's going on? What do you think this is all about? Who do you think you are? What do you think English is? How do you really cognize notions like the future, the past, where I've been, what I want? I mean, you know, it's in Moby Dick, Melville says, if you would strike, strike through the mask. Everything is a mask, and just behind that mask lurks, well, what? That's the question. I mean, it's the thing which informs every individual existence, and that's fine, and people have always lived in the shadow of that mystery. But it is our weird privilege to live in an age where there is also to be a collective dropping of the mask, a moment of melting and recasting of what reality itself is to be. So, you know, discussing this, convincing ourselves of it, and then working out the minute details of how it all is inevitable and couldn't be any other way, is how we will occupy ourselves this weekend. I'm really conflicted in, always in these situations, because I feel, for some reason, I suppose it's an ego trip, that I want to be correctly perceived. I, as a person, want to be correctly perceived. And I think of myself as a reasonable person, a person sensitive to concepts like evidence, causality, so forth and so on. And yet, what I have to say is like completely unreasonable. I mean, a messenger bearing news of complete madness approaching from all directions. So, and I got into that position by staying pretty close to the principle of...
 of skepticism. I'm not a believer. In fact, when the aliens draped the mantle over my shoulders, they said, it's because you don't believe in anything. This is why you got this far, because you didn't believe in anything. And it's a good method. Normally it's a method spawned out of futility. You say, well, fuck it, I don't believe in anything. But it's also very good for getting rid of a lot of crap, because the real stuff can take the test of skepticism. The real stuff doesn't have to be bowed down before. It works. It's on its own. The news is, and it's very hard news to get out, because it's news about the structure of reality. The news is coming back from 50, 60, 100 years of anthropologists, ethnographers, geographers, botanists, dealing with the most quote-unquote primitive people in the most remote parts of the world. The news is that reality is not at all as we imagined it to be, and that our prowess in the technical sciences is simply a cultural artifact, an accomplishment of ours. Some people do great tattoos. We send spacecraft to the stars. But it doesn't mean we understand anymore. And in fact, the evidence is building that our style of society is the historical equivalent of a temper tantrum. That it has no viability. It's completely self-limiting. It's destructive, and it hands nothing on to its receivers. So I sort of talk to this group, and all the groups that I talk to, from two points of view. I'm trying to convince you of something, and yet reason dictates that I assume that you're already convinced, pretty much. So then it's also an effort to figure out what it is we're so convinced of, and then what is so great about it. Because I think some kind of a... This is a real mystery. The only one I know. This is the thing that you hope exists, and assume doesn't, if you're a reasonable person. Because it's that all the dreams of childhood, all the sense of magic, and the dissolvability and transcendability of boundaries, is returned, is affirmed in this experience. Well, yet here we are, having this on the brink of a planetary meltdown of culture and ecosystem. So is this just some kind of dancing on the brink? Is it a kind of ultimate self-indulgence? Does it feed back into the central moral problem of the age, which is, what is to be done? What are we to do? How can we be effective, whatever that means? Is there a discernible role for each of us to play in the metamorphosis and near-death of the planet that we are now experiencing? Or are we simply to witness it? Well, I don't think there's any point in thinking about these kinds of questions, unless you draw back to the big picture, to first premises. A good example of what I mean is, suppose we save the rainforests and stabilize the population and so forth and so on, and then 50 years down the line, the sun explodes. It means we didn't get it. We were not reading correctly the message nature was trying to hand to us. And so we did the wrong thing and are going to be blown out of the water for such churlishness. So what's important is to figure out what is going on before you start pushing in the process. And I don't think you can do it from within a culture. In other words, if you're a person of decent intent and moderate intelligence, and you read the great minds of your culture and study their thought, it's insufficient because everybody is bound within an illusion of language. The entire enterprise of culture is this illusion of language. Homer was as sick with it as Heidegger. So there's no going back or getting, you know, no classic recension. What we have to do is reach past to some kind of experience. It must be anchored in an experience. But there is this thing about being human, which we as a culture have ignored, repressed, don't want to talk about face or think about, which is you can get loaded. And nobody knows quite what to make of this. We dance around it with the same kind of furious, ambiguous intensity that we also reserve for sex, which is also a boundary-dissolving, momentary loss of self into some kind of greater whole. And it also just drives us into a frenzy. I mean, we establish boundaries, we have hierarchies, we push it this way and that. It just drives us up the wall. Whoever she was who designed this system had the good sense to connect this whole sexual impulse very tightly into the generative process so that there's no way you can get sex out of the human experience. I mean, people have tried in all times and places in many strange ways. 150 years ago, they were putting pants on pianos because it was thought that young men should not see pianos unclothed because it might excite them to impure thoughts. This is real in England, in our culture, not New Guinea or the moon. But in England, pianos wore pants. But the psychedelic option is sort of like an appendix. You can have it, but you don't need it, apparently. Apparently, that's the key thing. In other words, whether or not you have the psychedelic experience does not stand between you and the ability to pass on your genes into time. It does not stand between you and continued existence, like the autonomic reflex of breathing. It's a kind of potential loop in development which we can, as culturally coordinated creatures, choose to follow or choose not to follow. But this development is very recent. Until, pick a number, 10,000 years ago, the onset of puberty, which was a wave of hormonal release, basically, the onset of puberty was the signal to the social mechanisms of the people to begin the administration of psychedelic plants, to carry people into adulthood, to carry them into a feeling-toned relationship with the mythological material that they had learned as children, but that they now would be expected to exemplify as realized adults within the Lung or Ge culture or whatever it is that they are. We, in our anxiety about all this, and I'll talk about why I'm sure it will come out, but for the present just to say, we have interfered with this and we have enforced upon ourselves a kind of infantilism. Now, this is a phenomenon that's well-known. It's called neoteny. Neoteny is the preservation of adult characteristics into adulthood. Into adulthood. Childhood characteristics or infantile characteristics.
 characteristics, even fetal characteristics. So for instance, all primate fetuses are hairless, but only the human being retains this fetal characteristic throughout life. The very large head of the human infant, the percentage relationship to body mass remains very much in the fetal end of the statistics throughout life for human beings. We have large heads. The very prolonged period in which skills, cultural skills, are acquired, up to 16 years. Well, this tendency toward biological neopheny, which was reinforced by mutagenic influences in the diet, is carried over into culture as a cultural characteristic. Have you noticed that every generation views the generation it spawns as more childish than itself? We look back to our rugged grandparents who slogged across the plains, and I suppose they look back to people in chain mail who were only four feet high, who could go without eating for six months or something. We become more and more soft, more and more infantile, and the final phase of this was just the decision that we never needed to grow up at all. We never needed to find out about the nature of our relationship to being at all, and so the psychedelics were suppressed, and what you have in the pre-adolescent child is an extreme expression of ego. This is the 11-year-old child, let's take as the example, is the supreme egoist, and in a sense, we got hung up at that place because we didn't get hung up in it, we fell into it. We were in balance, but the suppression of psychedelics created the precondition that allowed the generation of ego, and it's very complicated. A lot of factors were at work, you see. The mushroom style, the shamanic style of the nomadic hunter-gatherer is a style of goddess worship and psychedelic shamanism and orgiastic religion, and the shamanism and the religion overlap each other considerably. The style that replaced that was a style of domination, hierarchy, with alpha males, with powerful males controlling females at the center of these hierarchies, and to my mind, the concern that caused the shift was the accumulation in the psyche of these hominids of enough ego that there became concern for the line of male paternity. In other words, men wanted to know who their children were, and that made the orgiastic style of religion in conflict, because that was all about the children were the children of the group, and sex was a shared activity, even though there might be bonding. But once people got a man, once men got it into their heads that they wanted to know who their offspring were, then females had to be controlled very rigidly, and there had to be control of sexual, and the whole thing just turned into a nightmare. My women, my property, my children, my food, my territory, so on and so forth. Well, you see, what had been going on before was a true incipient symbiosis, and this is, I think, the new idea that I want to communicate, and that I'm absolutely, one, serious about, and two, literal about, that the, our glory, and our uniqueness, and why we are as we are, is because we are a plant-animal symbiotic species. Our ordinary state, our state of nature, the way in which we existed until 10,000 years ago, was in a very tightly bound symbiotic relationship with plants. They were, we domesticated them, and we spread them, and we created environments for them through the use of burning, and in return for this, this mysterious connection opened up, where real information couched in humanly cognizable terms, information about where the reindeer went, who you should marry, what the weather is going to do, stuff like that. Real information began to be traded back and forth. Now, biologists are familiar with the notion of pheromones, message-bearing chemicals that regulate behavior within a species, but we're just getting ready to go to the next level, and recognize the possibility of what have been called exo-pheromones, pheromones that regulate behavior between species, and it's very clear that, you know, in climaxed ecosystems of great age, such as the equatorial tropics of this planet, exo-pheromonal interactions become the major mediating force in all the evolutionary exchanges going on. The old notion of competition and survival of the fittest is now seen to be bankrupt. The way nature works is, it's the species that can make itself most necessary to other species, the one that can cut energy deals with the most of its neighbors, that is the successful one. So you maximize cooperation, you maximize dependency, you maximize integration. This is the successful evolutionary strategy. I mean, of course, you can be a jaguar and crash around in the forest and eat things immediately smaller than you, but jaguars will be a memory in the fossil record of this planet when the plants will still exist, given, you know, that man were not part of the picture. So the dynamic of life dictates that these energy levels be held very close. Well, no, I think, you know, nothing is outside of the natural, but all of this can be explained in terms of climatological flux on the African continent. Very briefly, you know, the primates evolved in Africa. Out of the primates came the hominids, which were these gray seal, upright, opposable thumb, binocular vision, and there were a number of these, and they existed for, you know, over the past six million years. But Africa and the planet, because of repeated glaciation, is subject to cycles of drying. And every time the ice moved south, primate populations were bottled up in Africa. And we know there have been four glaciations. Immediately the last one, the ice melted 20,000 years ago. And out of Africa that last time came pastoralists, people who had domesticated cattle and had a style of following cattle around, rather than being just strictly hunter-gatherers. Well, I maintain what happened was these arboreal tree canopy living apes came under pressure as the continent dried up to expand their diet, because the forests were disappearing and being replaced by grassland. Well, most animal species eat only one or two kinds of food. This is a general rule in nature, and it's in order to hold down exposure to mutagenic influence. But when an animal population is in a situation of food scarcity, the logical thing to do is to begin to test food sources and to expand your repertoire of food. Well, that's what these primates coming out of the trees did. Number one, they began eating meat, which gave them a real interest that they had never had before in these ungulate mammals that were evolving in the grasslands. And they began to test all kinds of other foods in the environment. Well, when you do that, you are exposing your population to mutation, and mutation rates soar. And it was during this period that the human brain size doubled in...
 like a million and a half years. Someone said it was the most rapid evolutionary expansion of a major organ ever seen in the fossil record. Nothing like it ever happened. Why? What was making this happen? Well, it looks like probably huge numbers of mutations were taking place in this population because people were literally eating anything they could get their hands on. And in this environment of the grasslands, the mushrooms were growing on the dung of these ungulate animals. Well, now a weird thing about psilocybin is that in very low doses, doses so low that you don't feel anything, your vision improves. They've done tests with this. And there is an improvement in visual acuity on psilocybin at low doses. Well, you can imagine the evolutionary impact of something like this on a hunting gathering population where visual acuity is all that stands between you and grim starvation. It means a population of animals, a population of these evolving hominids that accept the mushroom into their diet have just been given a tremendous leg up on nearby competing troops that don't have. It's like chemical binoculars. So immediately then there is a reason, an evolutionary reason for mushrooms to be eaten and for mushrooms to be accepted into the diet as an item and so forth and so on. Well, so then you take slightly more mushrooms and like all alkaloids, it's a CNS arousal. It means you feel alert, you feel interested, you want a boogie. And also if you're male, you can sustain an erection. So arousal means arousal. So then this stuff is an enzyme promoting sexual activity at that level. Well, sexual activity, the number of copulations that occur within a population is directly related to the number of successful impregnations. So suddenly you have these horny primates be a lot of more interest in sexual contact and partners and all that. This means that these psilocybin using creatures that are now more successful at hunting and more interested in sex have all kinds of pressures on them that will force them to outbreed the dull, uninteresting folks who don't use mushrooms at this point. Well, so then yet higher doses, it changes and it's no longer about sexual activity or clarity of vision. It becomes about the psychedelic trip, this tremendum which is as awesome to you and me as it was to these so-called primitive folks 20,000 years ago. We don't know what to make of it. They didn't know what to make of it. They founded a religion about it. We're trying to start the engine of the same religion all over again. And the way in which this religious ecstasis manifests itself is in language activity, in cognition, but in glossolalia, in spontaneous outbursts of syntactically organized vocal activity. Well, the great mystery of human emergence, of course, is language. What is it? Where did it come from? How did it ever get going on such a scale, so forth and so on? But it looks to me like what we're seeing in psilocybin is a kind of neurological enzyme, a catalyst in the environment that could take an evolving primate population and put it through a series of forced changes that produce, ultimately, a self-reflected, minded creature practicing a shamanic mother-goddess religion in this nomadic context. And that was paradise. And that was the ideal for the archaic revival. In other words, that Eden actually existed, that we are made for better things than what we've got. It says in Finnegan's Wake, here in Moy Cane, Moy Cane was the red light district of Dublin. Here in Moy Cane, we flop on the seamy side. But up n'yent, prospector, you sprout all your worth and woof your wings. That's a promise for the future. Up n'yent, you sprout all your worth and woof your wings. But also, antes, we sprouted our worth and woofed our wings. And this whole nostalgia for a perfected shamanism in prehistory is reasonable, I think. I mean, I think we had something, an unimaginably precious gift. We had consciousness and dynamic order. Consciousness, as we experience it now within the confines of history, is most analogous to cancer. I mean, it's just replicating, spreading. But it once was a dynamic, ordered thing. People lived, they died, they made love, they had children, they herded their flocks, they had ecstatic flights into dimensions which we cannot even conceive of. And they felt no need to break into the earth, to divert the rivers, to do all of this stuff. And even if we're not aesthetically attracted to that, we have to make a value judgment on it because it was not a runaway process. It did not push everything toward crisis. OK, well then, so what happened? What the hell happened if that's how it was? Well, you know, nature is just an ongoing story. The very drying processes that created those grasslands, that created those pressures on diet, that created that mother goddess religion, that evolved those ungulate animals, that process continued. And the grasslands dried up. And the winds began to blow. And the water holes got further and further apart from each other. And the mushroom festivals went from every Saturday night to the first Saturday of every month. And then to four times a year. And then to once a year. And then to once every five years. And then to never. And in the absence of the psychedelic experience, this ego thing gets going. I mean, it is literally like a calcareous growth in the bloodstream of the psyche. If you don't inoculate yourself against it, it will begin to take root and grow. And the boundaries of the world begin to move inward. And you no longer see things on a planetary scale or a millennial scale. It's just about my women, my money, my land, my children, all of this stuff. And at that point, you get the appearance of historical civilizations. You have kingship, kingship. The age of Gilgamesh. I mean, my god, when you read the story of Gilgamesh, you just wonder what's going on. Gilgamesh spurned the goddess. And the goddess sent a bull, which to me is symbolic of the mystery of the mushroom, the ungulate herding horned animal, the crypto symbol for the goddess. The goddess sends a bull. And he rejects the bull. He rejects the goddess. He rejects the bull. Then he takes Enkidu, the shaman figure, and forces him to go with him into the wilderness. And what do they do in the wilderness, this oldest of all myths, this story of the first men? What do they do? They cut down the tree of life. That's what they do. They cut down the tree of life. And then it goes forward. The earliest strata of mythology that comes out of these Middle Eastern civilizations is full of this male-female nature artificial tension. The story of Genesis is a similar thing. I mean, what's happening in Genesis is history's first drug bust. A woman is involved with a plant. And the plant opens their eyes. And they see that they are naked, which happens to be the case. They are naked. So in other words, they see, they grok their true existential condition. And Yawa, wandering around mumbling to himself in the garden, says this thing that these people have done. What if they eat of the fruit of the tree of life? Then they will be as we are. So it's very clear that there is concern to withhold knowledge.
 that human beings are to be held in an inferior position. Otherwise, if they were to eat of the fruit of the tree of life, of knowledge, they would be as we are. So there's this whole tension. And in the story in Genesis, you'll recall Adam and Eve are cast out of Eden, and an angel is set at the east of Eden with a burning sword. Well, what I take this to be about is a story from a strata where already the shift to the dominator culture has taken place. But they're looking backward at the partnership society on the grasslands of Africa, and the angel with the burning sword is nothing more than the sun. They literally were cast out of Eden. Eden disappeared around them. It dried up and blew away. And there was nowhere to go but the Nile Valley and Palestine. And these people who appear in the Nile Valley and Palestine at about 9,800 B.C. called Natufayan come out of nowhere with a very high culture and a tremendous ability to exploit plant resources. And I think they are the remnants of this partnership culture. And you see the way in which all this ties into the present and tends to be more than just a kind of cultural reconstruction of prehistory is we're trying to understand who we are, why we are the way we are. Well, the major thing that now that we have transcended ideology, and nobody gives a hoot whether you're a Marxist or any of that anymore because we've all seen through that, the new issue is human nature. And it evolves around this drug thing. Is it the true and purest expression of human nature that you should drink nothing but cold water and eat nothing but raw vegetables and any departure from this is an abomination? And then when you get to drugs, this is really an abomination. What should be our relationship to substances? And why are we the addictive creatures that we are? I mean, I know that elephants intoxicate on papayas and bumblebees get loaded on sugar water and this and that. But human beings addict to dozens of substances, to behaviors. I mean, all kinds of things. A guy goes out in the morning to pick up his paper off his porch and it's not there. And he has a heart attack. He has to sit down. My God, what am I going to... And he has to have instant relief from the traumatic crisis of the non-presence of the morning information fix and the phenomenon of falling in love, which doesn't really happen with other animals. I mean, other animals bond, but they don't go bananas in the way that we do on this issue. We're chemically highly cued in a way that a lot of animals around us aren't. So then history, because of this, because of this addictive drive within us that we have because of this disrupted symbiotic relationship in prehistory. See, we're looking for the score, but we can't quite find it. Imperialism doesn't do it. Heroin doesn't do it. Sadomasochism doesn't do it. Nothing quite does it, but we keep trying stuff. Cocaine, money, fascism, mercantilism, ideology, all of this stuff. We are very, very restless. And the path of our restless, frantic peregrinations across the intellectual landscape is what we call history. It's our effort to try and get straight, get back to something which we feel we deserve and that we lost and that we don't know quite what it was. Well, meanwhile, in the rainforests, in the Arctic tundra, these little brown people have been keeping the gnosis going, never questioning, never doubting, millennia after millennia, going into these hyperdimensional mind spaces and operating there. While this has been going on, we have been elaborating positivism, scientific philosophy, building atom smashers, so forth and so on. We have created, then, out of our infantile cultural style, what Eric Fromm would call a fecal cultural style because we just excrete stuff, all kinds of stuff. They have held this mystery. But they, to my mind, the mistake that has been made is that it's been thought that they understood it, that we now go to the shamans and they will explain to us what the inner skinny is on all this. That isn't it. There's no explaining this. Once you've been there, you know the futility of a notion like understanding the psychedelic experience. It's like understanding the ocean or understanding a planetary ecology. We think that things are to be understood, but some things are simply to be, you know, what's the word, appreciated, imbibed, to be in the darshan of them. Well, let's talk a little bit more, as we were this morning. I talked more than I intended to this morning. What is anybody's take on this, or did anybody not get their licks in this morning? Yeah. You mentioned the odd, the strange, and the weird. Other than hallucinogens, how can we fool this brain away from the ego? It's pretty difficult. I think that's why we're in the situation we're in. We're talking about things we could do every day, not once a month. Well, there's no substitute for awareness in any situation. I mean, part of the work, I think, is the spectacular episodes of intoxication that break down the boundaries of our personality and reorient us and recast it. But then the other thing is just living that out from day to day. And there's no substitute for hard work. I mean, people say, how can psychedelics be real? You're saying it's some kind of shortcut to spiritual wisdom. Well, it may be a shortcut, but nobody said it's easy. It isn't easy, no. It just is that it's ultimately effective. I don't know. I find myself preaching a doctrine that is hardly welcome in the touchy-feely circles that I'm usually teaching in, which is stifle it. Now, there's a doctrine to take home from the New Age. Stifle it, you know. The ego is much too large. I mean, we need an ego, yes. That's so that if you take somebody to dinner, you know whose mouth to put food in. That's having an ego. But above and beyond that, it becomes sort of superfluous. It's a habit. It's a bad habit. It's an infantile response that has been culturally supported to the point where it's become institutionalized. Do you believe a person needs a strong enough ego before they can transcend or transform it, though? The reason I'm saying that is because I've seen a lot of teenagers in the city, and then they experiment a lot with drugs, and especially with psychedelics. And sometimes I wonder if they're really getting anything out of that early experimentation. I didn't get into psychedelics until my late 20s. Well, see, it's a real complicated question. Civilizations evolve folkways to deal with the drugs that they're interested in, and this takes hundreds, thousands of years. Part of the question I hear you asking is you say that these drugs dissolve the ego, but aren't some of the people in a weakened ego condition when they come upon them? And I think probably you're right. It's not clear that the onset of puberty, when there's a good deal of psychosexual and endocrine confusion going on anyway, is the precise right moment that you want to drop these psychedelics on somebody, although this is done in many traditional societies. But the problem is that in societies where there is shamanism, there's an understood way to do it. There's an understood way to initiate somebody. Kids growing up on the streets taking drugs of all sorts in doses of all sorts, it's very hard to sort it out. It's very hard to sort it out.
 You know, I mean, people don't have intent, they don't have focus, they don't have information. They're just... everything is so fragmented in modern life. Part of what all this yammering about shamanism might eventually lead to is the reformation of psychotherapy along the lines of a shamanic style so that then, you know, people could have these voyages, could have the insight into their problems that you get from psychedelics. Also in those cultures and societies where they do use the psychotropic drug at puberty, I think those societies support the individual, the child growing up, in very positive ways and feed their ego in a very constructive, positive way so that they are not filled with a lot of self-consciousness and self-hatred and lack of self-worth and so forth, a lot of the critical nature that I think, and the lack of nurturing and attention that a lot of the adolescents grow up in our society with that then get weak egos from adolescence on into adulthood. And I think the developmental quality of life in different cultures has a lot to do with one's ability to utilize the drug, the plants effectively. Cooperation is just an automatic response among many of these rainforest-hunting, gathering people. I mean, when you finish a job, it isn't your job. When you finish a job, you go on and you do another job until all the jobs are done. And this is clearly a learned response because these are human beings just like us, but under the extreme pressure of being 20 people trying to hold it together in the rainforest through gathering, they have accepted that the tribal unit is the lowest common denominator and that everything has to operate in the light of that. Thank you. I felt that part of what was being discussed here was the difference between discursive and one-pointed meditation. And discursive meditation is like meditating on the stations of the cross if you're Catholic or the seven sheaths of the self if you're a Hindu. And it sort of serves years of doing that as establishing a ladder that can take you to the transcendent. And that one-pointed meditation, and even more profound than the use of psychedelics, can suddenly put you into a transcendent state. And whether you'll have the capacity to get back is the question. And so that there might be a role for a period of discursive meditation or an education along that way before something instantly propels you into an experience of the transcendent. Yes, although this difficulty getting back is an interesting thing to talk about because I certainly know what you mean. I think everybody who takes psychedelics a lot eventually has a trip that stands their hair on end. And the reasonable fear I've always felt about psychedelics was not that it would kill you. That's not reasonable. But the somewhat murkier question, could it drive you mad, is a little harder to just, Of course not, because hell, why not? I mean, it's definitely rubbing up against those areas. But I have real faith that it's like flipping a coin and getting it to land on its edge. The psychedelic experience represents such a state of disequilibrium that in almost all cases the entire system is striving to return to normal and will do so very quickly. My life is built around one spectacular exception where my brother took a bunch of things and had a theory and proceeded to sail off for the better part of three weeks. And this sort of brings up another issue. You know, we sit here relatively down and calm and we can talk about the LD50 of psilocybin. That's how much you would have to give to 100 mice for 50 of them to die. This is what pharmacologists are all about. But when you're actually stoned in these places, you realize or you have the apparent realization that of course the mind is in control and talking about safety, you're only as safe as you think you are, literally. And if for a moment you decide you're not safe, the state is very fragile, it's skittery. You know, get it going too fast in one direction and it will be very hard to run around and get in front of it and get it halted and moving off in some other direction. Is that what you meant by self-toxicity? Did I use that phrase this morning? No, in a past tape you did mention about self-toxicity and negative effects, possible negative effects. Well, yeah, I think this is what people fear, that they are self-toxic. And we have all been disempowered. To some degree we are self-toxic. That's a real tragedy. It means we have been made our own enemies. And then, whether we are or not, we all fear self-toxicity. This is why in the 60s, when LSD first began to appear, people had such violent reactions to it. You know, Tim Leary said, LSD is a psychedelic drug which causes psychotic behavior in people who haven't taken it. This is absolutely true. Why would a drug that you don't take cause you to become psychotic? It's because the mere fact of its existence is so threatening to you because you know that you are self-toxic. That's what I always felt in the 60s. These people all know they are crazy. And they don't want to get near anything which would perturb their psychic dynamics. They know beyond a shadow of a doubt that they are certifiably insane. And they don't want to hear about it. So they are not going to be delving into something which shines a Klieg light on the mechanics of the psyche. It's the last thing that they are interested in. If the definition of ego is the reality testing mode of the psyche, the psyche's ability to perceive reality, then it almost seems that the psychedelic experience augments the ego to a new level rather than extinguishes the ego. That it gives a truer picture of reality. Well, you know, Freud had this concept that he called the super-ego. And this term has somewhat fallen out of use because we all tend to be a little more Jungian than that. And we talk about the collective unconscious. But in a way, though I'm more sympathetic to Jung, I like the phrase super-ego because the phrase collective unconscious is a kind of blah concept. It's like a data bank, a repository. Where super-ego seems to imply organization, intelligence, focus, awareness. And what seems to emerge from these psychedelic experiences is that where we expected disorder or the absence of organization, we find order and we find mindedness. The super-ego seems to be everywhere. So in a way, it is like that. It is that you're becoming more informed but it diminishes your personal importance, the physical atom of your body. I mean, we believe, and it may be true, but the question is how important is it, that we are each unique and that somehow in this uniqueness is our worth. And that if something were to happen to you, we can't replace you with me and you can't stand in for me. But back off to where you're looking at a scale of a thousand years of this stuff and you see that each one of us actually is expendable and that the general processes in which we are embedded are so large that it probably doesn't matter who you are. And I could have been you and you could have been me. Well then, once you've got that...
 nailed down. Being becomes a whole different project. Being is something out there, that you do. You garden well, you bear and raise children, you feed people, you build objects. It becomes something outside of yourself, rather than something interiorized. And I think thousands and thousands of generations of people were born and lived and went into the ground with this kind of a psychology. And we are all imprisoned by our cultural expectations to such a degree that the real problem is to make ourselves realize how blind we are, how much what we've been taught, the words we use, the expectations we have, them us in. And the psychedelics show that cultural relativism not as an exercise, not as something that you're convinced of by rational argument, but that you just see it immediately. See I think we are very malleable creatures and have held many positions in the last ten thousand years vis-a-vis these structures which we call the ego, the superego, the self, the unconscious. It's more fluid than we imagine. Language may have emerged only forty thousand years ago. Well imagine that. Language is the software without which we wouldn't be people. I mean, language allows us to explore realms of subtlety and inclusive understanding that so exceed the animal grasp that they can barely be compared. I think probably in the beginning that language was something that women held almost as a magical power. The reason for this is that there was greater selective pressure on women than on men to develop language because the physically larger male, when there began to be role specialization, the physically larger male was made a hunter. And hunting places a premium on such values as stoicism, patience, and an ability to keep your mouth shut. The women were involved in gathering and because the children were physically with the women, this area in which the gathering went on was more tightly related to the living space. Well, if you know anything about the science of botany, you know that it is a science of the coordination of detail. Everything is about the detail. Here you have fifty species of grasses. To Joe Blow, they all look exactly the same. To a specialist in the Griminii, here is a whole rich universe of taxonomic diversity to be combed over and milked for years as you advance through the academic machinery. Women had to learn all these differentiations. Women had to be able to make statements like, it's the small bush at the bottom of the draw with the wrinkled leaves and the sticky white berries with the silver hairs on them. It's all color, shape, form, and relationship words. Well, this kind of language is the kind of language that gave us a leg up on animal organization. After a passage of time, I think this linguistic thing generally established itself. But it was originally a thing that women were into. Even to this day, when you go into villages in third world parts of the planet, there's this phrase in all travel books, which is the chattering of the village women. It's true, they really do chatter. It's because they are more collective creatures. The male is this proud, lonely, hunting figure and the females represent the village values. And they held the knowledge of the plants. They discovered all this stuff. You even get that in the Eden story. It's a woman who's blamed. Somehow these women have a deeper insight and the poor guy is just led to slaughter because he's trying to get some chow. Perhaps an appropriate image would be one of climbing a temple. I always think of Borobudur, which is probably the most impressive temple that I've ever visited. But there, as you walk up the temple, if you pay attention, you hear the whole experience of Buddhism and different symbologies. But also, just basically your vision of the surrounding jungle expands and your sense of self diminishes. Because you see the larger world. You see the larger world from up on top. Yeah, from the center of the mandala. The same psychology is operating on the Mayan buildings. I mean, the Mayan buildings are barely buildings at all. They're more like pedestals. I mean, this thing is 230 feet high, but when you climb to the top of it, there's room for 12 guys to stand shoulder to shoulder. And that's the building. And it's clearly, entirely, to elevate them above the social space. It was literally a machine for lifting the priesthood into another dimension. And the dimension into which it lifted them was an aerial dimension. They could see the whole world. They could see the Sak Bay stretching out to the next pyramid. They could see the next pyramid five or ten miles away on the horizon and could see the life of the city and all this. You know, there's a funny thing. It's almost as though biology and then its ancillary tack-on phenomenon, culture, is a kind of conquest of dimensions that has been going on for a very long time. And this aids me, anyway, in understanding the transformation that I think lies ahead for this planet. The earliest forms of life had only a tactile sense. That means all they knew was what they were bumping up against. And they would move around and what was edible was eaten and what wasn't, wasn't. And then a long time passed, 100 million, 200 million years, and certain specialized cells aggregated. And these cells were light-sensitive cells. They could send an on-off signal based on whether or not photons were falling on them. So eye spots developed. And eye spots are just these sensors which tell you if it's light or dark. And suddenly these creatures could move off after a light source or could retreat from danger into a dark spot. Well, then eventually these eye spots evolved into the kinds of very finely coordinated optical systems that we have and octopi have and so forth. At the same time, motility was developing, the ability to move through space. Well, have you ever noticed that when you look at something and at a place a few feet from where you're sitting and then go there, physically move there, that what you have really done is you have coordinated a short trip into the future? Because you have looked at a spot and you have said, this is how the brain computer works. It has said, I am not in that place. I want to be in that place. I am in this place now. To get from this place now to that place then, I have to move through the following points. And when animals began to move, another dimension was added to their repertoire of control. And when they began to coordinate vision, another dimension was added to their repertoire of control. Well, we made then a great and fundamental break in our neurological organization. All animal life, as far as we can tell, is imprisoned between very steep temporal canyons having to do with the present moment. Animals are in the present moment in a way that would be very frightening to us, I think. If you could suddenly enter the mind of an animal, the immediate thing that you would notice that would really unnerve you was the absence of a past.
 in the future, that just, you know, you talk about be there now, an animal has that down path. Well, when we, through language, that was the great, language is a strategy for binding time. Language is a strategy for taking the animal mind locked in the present moment and pushing it back conceivably to the creation of the universe, as we do, and forward conceivably to the end of the universe. So culture is a strategy for intensifying the dimensionality of an animal species. And the, when you then get into what's called epigenetic coding, not simply being able to recall the past neurologically and project the future neurologically, but to actually write down the past and calculate the future, well then what is happening is mind is spreading out through the dimensions available to it. And this whole cultural intensification that we call the 20th century, the spinning down and interconnecting of technologies and animal ecosystems and philosophical systems, all this knitting together is a going hyperdimensional of our species that yet more of the future and more of the past is apparently to be realized. And if you know anything about virtual reality thinking, there time is to be homogenized completely. I mean, you will not be able to tell whether it's next week or last week because they will be approximately equally accessible. And somehow the psychedelic experience is related to this bootstrapping process of climbing organizationally from one dimension to another, deeper and deeper into complexity. It's almost as though the psychedelic experience is a viewing of the process from the highest dimension in the plane. One way of putting this that isn't so mathematical is to say what you experience in the psychedelic experience is eternity. All of time you leave the slowly revolving torus of time just as one would leave the galaxy in a spaceship and you go outside and then you look back and you see all of time. You see the beginning of life, the end of life, the fiery death of this planet, millennia hence, whatever it is. And I think that this is a true vision, that this is what shamans have achieved. This is what we with all our sophistication are confounded by. A shaman is someone who has seen the end. A shaman is somebody who has seen it all. They've run the movie and run the movie and run the movie and they've satisfied themselves that they understand the movie. Then they go back to their place in the movie and they live it with a small smile because they know the end. They know how things work. They know what life is. And when you have even a piece of that action you can get a real handle on peace of mind, on true authenticity because it's in the tumbling forward rushing chaos of the lower dimensional slices of time that we lose it, that we become confused. Who am I? What do I want? Where am I? Who should I be with? What should I give myself to? This is a voice speaking from chaos. I remember once at a period of turmoil in my life I took mushrooms to try and resolve my personal difficulties and I said, I'll think of a question. They say you should think of a question, so I said, I'll think of a question. The question was, am I doing the right thing? And at the point in the trip I posed this question to it and the answer was, what kind of a chicken shit question is that? To ask an extraterrestrial intellect. So then I got it, you know, that that was a chicken shit question and that I had been completely misunderstanding the nature of the relationship. This wasn't some kind of little glass ball that gives yes or no when you turn it upside down. This is, I don't know, words fail, but nobody to expect psychotherapy for free from anyway. The problem with determinism is, it says everything can't happen anyway except the way that it's happening. Now the problem with that is that it makes the concept of thinking irrelevant. Because you're thinking what you're thinking because you couldn't think anything else. Therefore the notion of truth or judgment or all of that is completely shot down. So a totally determined universe is the most ultimately uninteresting that there can be. Nevertheless, the universe clearly is, to some degree, highly determined. I mean, we know to within nanoseconds the time of the sunrise tomorrow and unless there's a serious instability it will be on time. So there is a degree of predictability. My rap is sort of divided into two parts and I'm very shy about the second half. The first half is easy for me. It's that psychedelics are wonderful, you should take them, this is the way to save the world, so forth and so on. The second part of the rap is, here's what I've learned from psychedelics and then not some general kind of feel-good thing but something that requires a blackboard and tensor equations of the third degree and so forth and so on. And I'm very shy about putting that out. My personal approach to psychedelics before I realized that you could save the world with them, when I just thought that this was some kind of thing, self-exploration, my notion was what it's good for is ideas. It's for generating ideas. And I don't really like the word generating because you don't generate them, you hunt them. You get in your little boat and you paddle out onto the dark water and then you put your feet up and you wait and you set your nets and you wait and sometimes you pull up your nets and something the size of a freight train has gone through them and you just row for sure, shit in white and sometimes minnows, trivia, why does our little finger just fit our nostril, the mysteries of the animal body or all kinds of stuff. But occasionally, and it's worth fishing a lifetime, occasionally something will come into the nets that is not so small as to be trivial and not so large as to be incomprehensible and this thing can be wrestled with for hours and eventually brought home to show the startled folks back on shore and this showing the startled folks back on shore makes history. All these ideas come out of interaction with these plants. The number of ideas which when you pick up a straight encyclopedia should be traced back to herders and people who kept animals. People say, you know, astrology, astronomy, it was invented by people watching their flocks. The calendar, time was invented by people watching their flocks. All of a sudden, well they weren't only watching their flocks, they were also watching the cow pies of their flocks for mushrooms and music. All of these Pythagorean insights into order, I think, come out of this herding, domesticated animal husbandry, we call it husbandry, because it's a model of caring for nature. These ideas are the inspiration and the purpose, to my mind, the social purpose, because I can get rid of my stuff.
 and feel better about how I was abused in childhood and this and that and the other thing, with psychedelics. But that's all personal growth stuff. But an idea, you know, can be shared. You can take it and you can lay it at somebody's feet. And where do they come from? You know, when you ask the question, where do the ideas come from? This is Platonic philosophy 101, ladies and gentlemen. This is why the Greeks gave up fishing, to discuss this problem, where do the ideas come from? And we are no closer to understanding that. And yet, the ideas are the signposts of our destiny. They guide us forward. And yet, we know not from whence nor whither. Well, I think now, you know, so Plato's take on that was he said, well, there must be a perfect world somewhere where all these things exist in some, and the numbers and everything. There's a perfect form for everything in a higher dimensional world called the archetypes. Well, 2,000 years of philosophical sophistication have shown certain problems with that point of view, but fewer than you might think. I mean, the mystery of form, the problem of form, what is it? Where does it come from? What sustains it? We are nothing more than form. If it weren't for form, we would be no different than the dirt under our feet. And form intrudes into matter, and then it withdraws. And when it withdraws, they put you in a hole and put dirt on top of you. So it's very important to understand, what is this coming and going of form? If we take this pillow and saw it in two, it's a pretty undramatic event. If we take one of us and saw us in two, it's an extremely dramatic event. And what is the difference there? It's that this object is three-dimensional, and this object is four-dimensional. This object has a quality about it called being alive. Being alive, also technically known as metabolism, means that material is moving along temporal gradients within the confines of this organism. Material is not moving along any gradients within this thing. It's just where it is. There it sits. But in here, a form is being maintained from within. And if I were to die, the form would collapse. Here, no form is being maintained except the form imposed. This is an imposed form. It has no sense of itself, and it doesn't sustain itself from any kind of internal integrity. But higher-dimensional objects, like animals and plants and human beings, have this quality. Well, so then what we've been talking about here, albeit sloppily, is the fact that we seem to occupy a higher dimension in the natural order than other things. And this higher dimension has to do with the fact that we have a little piece of mind, a little chunk of this higher-order organization. Well then, going toward that, as visionaries, as users of psychedelics, society keeps adjusting its trim tabs, as it were, to mirror this transcendental goal. And this is what we want to become. We want to become like the sensed object in our imagination. And shamanism is a pipeline about this. It's almost as though the end state... Well, here's a model for it. It's almost as though the ordinary causal flow of information from the past to the future must make a place for like a three to five percent backward flow. And this is what we call intuition. It's that vague, unformed knowing that comes without any baggage of causal mechanism, but it's true knowledge. You know how it's going to be. Well, it may be that time is somehow information permeable, that future potential states of existence are actually somehow in resonance with states of existence in the present and in the past. Our models of how the world works are very, very simple. I mean, basically we operate with mechanical push-pull models that are appropriate to very simple mechanical systems. And yet we know that we are far more complex even than the most complex physical systems. This last 15,000 years has been something. And the last 500 years has really been something. It's so close now, the transcendental object, that it informs everything. The metaphor, the model to hold in your mind as you gaze at the earth in its travail is the metaphor of birth, not death, that a gestation process of 20,000 years is coming to an end. Culture-using, language-using, minded creatures are coming to some kind of fermentative climax. And we cannot extrapolate the human career on this planet centuries into the future. It ain't going to be like that. It's an absurd question to ask the question, what will the world be like in 500 years? What the world will be like in 500 years is unimaginable because in the next 40 years, we are going to pass through this quantized transition where we actually become insiders and players in the game. History is a state of becoming. It's a state of moving from the inarticulate, unreflecting, animal style of organization to the self-reflecting, minded, conscious, energy-controlling style. But to get from one to the other takes about 20,000 years, and it's a bitch. You don't know where you are. You don't know up from down. You cannot tell what is happening. There's just migrations and warfare and pogroms and gene mixing and hysteria of every sort and messiah this and religion that, and they're slaughtering these people and these people are doing that. And it's like a bad dream. It's like a psychedelic trip is what it's like. It's a 15,000 to 25,000 year dash to authentic being from the animal body. And it would have been a lot easier to understand if 10,000 years ago we hadn't cut the telephone wire to nature, because from then on we haven't been able to figure out what's going on. And it's been left to men with large egos to figure out what was going on. And what they figured out was going on was that there was a lot of free women, land, animals, and money that needed to be organized for their pleasure, because they lost the connection to this planetary birth process. Now, and like a birth process, I mean, the metaphor is worth pursuing, because a birth is violent. Blood is shed. There's moaning and groaning and thrashing around. And yet this is not an automobile accident. This is not a human tragedy. This is how life works. This is centrally scripted in to how human beings operate. If this didn't happen, we wouldn't be here. Well, that's the, and yet, you know, if you've ever been pregnant or been around a pregnant person, this is a wonderful state of equilibrium, of self-satisfaction, of completion. And yet the very fact that it exists ensures that it's going to be rent. It's going to be torn. It's going to end violently in separation of these two beings. But then there are all kinds of births. There's still birth, the most disturbing and unsettling of all. There's, you know, breach. There's cesarean. There's bad presentation. There's all, there's easy labors, hard labors. And I think this is the choice that we are, we still have some choices left. And a choice still to be made is, is it going to be a hard labor or an easy labor? It's how fast we educate ourselves. That's the lubrication in the birth canal of this pup, how fast we educate ourselves. Are we going to fight it? Or are we going to go with it? And it's.
 It's really frightening, I mean, because what we want is, first of all, forgiveness for what we've done, which ain't likely to come. And then we want to go back and paint ourselves blue and be tribal, and turn our back on all of this. But I don't think it's going to be like that. It's propelling us to some kind of higher order. The faith is that history must have been for something, and that everything is to be knitted together, and everything is to be reborn anew. And I don't think this is, this is not a religious doctrine, exactly. It's more like the biological faith. I mean, we see it everywhere. We see it in the birth that I was just describing. We see it in the metamorphosis of insects. You know, Heraclitus said, Pontet reia, all flows. And I think that this is the hardest thing to learn. It certainly has been the hardest thing for me to learn in my life. And I assume then, by extrapolation, maybe this is one of the hard things to come to terms with. Everything flows. Nothing lasts. I mean, not the travail, not the horror, not the women you love, not the women who drive you crazy, not the children you love, not the children that drive you crazy. Everything is in the process of changing into something else, even at the very moment that you recognize its coherence as an entity. And this is the bad news that the ego doesn't want to hear. This is what the ego is created to deny, because the ego is, you know, it's the effort of flesh to make diamond, and it can't be done. You cannot make an indestructible, adamantine, clear substance. It can't be done. But it's all tied up with our fear of death. We assume that if we release ourselves into this flow, we will be swept away, that our identity will cease to exist, that we will somehow not be there. This is an artifact of language. It's a horrible misunderstanding about who we are, and how the whole system is working. Are you using language as a meta-word, more than just a syntactic symbol that you're using? Well, no, that's all I mean, but I'm really aware of what a funny thing it is. You know, you talk about other dimensions. Language is like an informational creature of some sort. I mean, languages live, they reproduce themselves. It's a virus. Yes, it's a kind of virus. William Burroughs said this. He said English is a virus from outer space. I have no quarrel with this. This seems entirely reasonable. It's a very strange thing. Reality is made out of language. And for most of the people in this room, it's made out of English. And yet we spend a great deal of time worrying about quarks and mu-masons and electromagnetic radiation. All this is entirely a fiction. None of this stuff exists. All that exists are words. And we play a game, a really fairly insidious game with ourselves. We all, I suppose here, give great credence to what is called quantum physics. Is there anyone here who would care to explain to the group several of the core doctrines of quantum physics? Or any core doctrine? And by explain, I don't mean a verbal gloss. I mean, give us the hard core equations. Well, no one seems to be coming forth. And yet, this is our truth. How crazy are you if your truth is something you can't even understand? And that's the situation that we're in. We believe that somewhere among us, somebody understands these tensor equations of the third degree. And that if it got real tight, we could go to them and they would then explain what reality is. Well, this is a head full of shit, this kind of thinking. What you are actually dealing with is what Wittgenstein called the present at hand. The present at hand, good phrase, because it implies that only that which can be grasped matters. And the quark cannot be grasped, the new mason, the electromagnetic field, none of this. These things need to be understood for what they are, which is little shingles, little shingles, which we epoxy onto the face of the universal mystery. And once you have a bunch of these little shingles epoxied onto the face of the mystery, then you can't see the mystery at all anymore and you call that an explanation. Say, well, that's taken care of, we've explained it. By the time a child is eight or nine or five or six, they have covered the entirety of reality with these interlocking little linguistic tiles. And nowhere now is reality to be found. Between ourselves and reality, as quickly as we possibly can, we erect a lie. We erect a false set of assumptions that are culture-bound. And this has always impressed me, the culture-bound nature of language. That in a way, you can never leave the place you are raised in because you acquire a local language. And the local language is all you ever really have. I had an experience of this that brought it home to me very strongly because when I first went to the tropics, I was there as a professional butterfly collector and it was pretty important to make a living. And my impression of the jungle was that it was green. That was my impression. Well then, three years later, I went back with botanists. Well, if you know anything about botany and taxonomy, what it is, is it's an orgy of language. I mean, you know, leaves are lanceolate, crenolate. They have bracts, which are sessile, umbilate, and indentified, and so forth. These are specialized words to describe structure. You go with a botanist into the jungle, and the jungle becomes unbelievably rich. Here are melanostomes, malfigs, virolas, all kinds of things. And as soon as you put words to it, reality emerges. So you see, here is language as a double-edged sword. Out of the undifferentiated, it creates miraculous new realities to which we immediately habituate, undervalue, and profane. In other words, familiarity breeds contempt. But somewhere between silence and the familiarity that breeds contempt is the living essence of the word and its meaning. This problem of language is central, I think, to understanding the psychedelic experience. What I see happening on these tryptamines is the project of language goes from being something which you hear to something which you see without ever crossing over a quantized moment of transition. Well, this is, to my mind, absolutely astonishing, and I think I'm a pretty tough nut to crack. When you see language, it's amazing, because it's a paranormal thing. It's like it cheats. It achieves paranormal intensity without violating any of the laws of physics that I'm familiar with. What I'm talking about is that in these shamanic performances in the Amazon and on psilocybin, language goes from something beheld to something seen. There's precedent for this. In the Hellenistic world of Greco-Romanism, the be-all and the end-all of spiritual accomplishment was what's called the logos. And the logos was an informing voice, a voice in the head, that told you the right way to live. And Plato and all of these...
 Heves cultivated and achieved connection with the Logos. Well, there was an Alexandrine Jew named Philo Judeus, who was a great commentator on the religions of his period. And he wrote about what he called the more perfect Logos. The more perfect Logos. And he said, what is the more perfect Logos? And then he answered his own question. The more perfect Logos goes from being heard to being seen without ever crossing over a quantized moment of transition. Language is something unfinished in us. It's something that was catalyzed out of animal organization by hallucinogenic activation of brain states. And it is something that is in the act of perfecting itself. And when it is completed, my faith is that words will be seen, not heard. The whole way in which we organize our language around visual metaphors when we talk about clarity. So if someone is able to communicate, we say, she spoke clearly. That's a visual metaphor. We say, I see what you mean. I see what you mean. That means I understand you. I see what you mean. He painted a picture. It means unconsciously, at the unconscious level, we connect visual metaphors and the visual sense with clarity of understanding. And what's happening in the ayahuasca cults, in the mushroom intoxications, and so forth, is an invocation of the visible logos. It comes into being in the shared space. You control it with sound. I mean, you discover that sound is something that you can see. And this is, I referred to this this morning when I talked about how we may be a one gene mutation away from a transformation of language. You can sit, feel perfectly normal, not feel wired or depressed, not have visual activity in the visual field. And then you generate a tone like, mmm. And you see that it's a certain shade of lemon yellow with a chartreuse edge running on it. And then you, mmm. And it shifts to pink blue. Well, you begin to experiment with this. And you discover very quickly that you can do more than just generate colors. You can generate modalities. You can generate shapes. As you begin to relax into an unconscious expression of syntax, form begins to behave itself in the space in front of you. And that language may have existed a very long time before anybody got the idea that you could use a certain sound, like glass, to mean a certain complex object. Because on psilocybin, glossolalia is frequently triggered. Glossolalia is normally presented as speaking in tongues, a religious phenomenon of fundamentalism. And the fundamentalist spin on it is that these are ancient biblical languages and that you're being possessed by an angel or something. But in fact, at the primitive level of religion worldwide, glossolalia is frequently met with. And all of us have an ability to relax away from meaning and still retain syntax. It's just something you would never do. Because we're programmed to always mean something when we speak. But in fact, babies don't do this at all. They love to babble. And they only late in the process learn to attach meaning. Well, so then under language in the humble service of meaning, there is language for itself, sort of the ding on cease of language. And, well, I'll give an example of it and then discuss what's going on. Nidri gevond wai haksikevichni mulgum vaapakten didikinihipikekteit. E dechikeve huai haampikikitit, ef muulktive in didikt kuahavagenkeit kifidut ulmikinditalt. OK, now what's happening here? First of all, ordinarily, we associate this speed of vocal noise with words. Words are small mouth noises. That's all they are. You see, if you're going to have a creature which communicates among members of its species, you have to have a low energy form of communication. Otherwise, you'd be exhausted from the effort to communicate. Well, small mouth noises are great. A person can talk for about 12 hours without stopping fairly effortlessly. I mean, if you've got water and a little dope rolled, it's not a problem. Well, do you know how much information a person could convey in 12 hours if they were, say, reading the telephone book aloud? It's pretty amazing. So this thing I just did, it had syntax, but it had no meaning. In other words, if you listen to it, you hear that sounds repeat, rhythms repeat, there appear to be prefixes, suffixes, certain kinds of declensions. It's all there, folks. It just doesn't mean anything. But it turns out that the activity of language feels like language, whether it means anything or not. Well, in the psychedelic state, you discover this same set of tinker toys that was used to create the little speech I just did can be used to create sculptures that are free-form, that this hiwai waksi kiwvini mauhakti kipipit, it looks a certain way. What's important is not how it sounds. What's important is how it looks. In the Amazon, in these ayahuasca cults, they have what they call ikaros, magical songs. Ikaros are visual art. They are intended that way, and they're criticized that way, and their success or failure is judged entirely in the visual domain, and yet they are made out of sound. And what they convey are very complex feelings. You could almost say three-dimensional feelings, feelings so complex that they won't lay down and be a sound like hate, fear, revulsion. They won't do that. They can only be laid out as grammatical objects of a higher order. And I think that this process is happening in human beings, the push toward visible language, but it's being accelerated by the psychedelics and that we are trying to become, for each other, visual objects, and we are trying to become capable of generating these things. Now, why I hold these conclusions is because in the DMT flash, which is the most intense quintessence, most quintessential distillation of this kind of stuff, you encounter the shamanic entities, the spirits, the ancestors, and this is really confounding. I mean, we can put up with shifting cobwebs of color and weird insights about our nostrils and our little fingers, but not entities. And yet, in that space, these things exist, and they're preaching this ontological transformation of language. This is how entities in hyperspace communicate. It's as though everything has had one dimension added onto it. It's as though we are existing in some kind of squashed version of a larger superspace that can simply be mentally unfolded through the act of encountering a psychedelic substance. I think it's big news that these entities exist. Now, if you were to go to a shaman in a classical culture and say, what's it about? What's going on here? They would unhesitatingly tell you that these are the ancestors. Oh, yes, these are the ancestors. We cure using the ancestors. And this is, I think, very unsettling for us as Westerners. We'd much rather accept it.
 accept the notion of friendly extraterrestrials communicating through the mushroom than that this is the dearly departed. I mean that really, you can feel your boundaries beginning to quake against that possibility. It's very interesting, recently there was a new edition of Evans Vince's The Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries, which if you've never read it, it's quite an interesting book. Y.E. Evans Vince was an American who became a great scholar of Mahayana Buddhism and wrote the Tibetan Book of the Dead, the Tibetan Book of the Great Liberation, Tibetan Yoga and Secret Doctrines and so forth. But his doctoral thesis when he was a young folklore student at Cambridge in 1911 was he wanted to study the fairy faith and he went to Brittany and Wales and Ireland and interviewed the oldest people in the districts, the Crones and the old, old people. And it's a wonderful book to read because these people just tell these stories and it's absolutely convincing. I mean the fairies are real, the fairy faith is real. And when you asked, when Evans Vince asked these people, what's going on, they said, these are the dead. When you die you stay around but you're in an invisible realm and it's an ecology of souls, my phrase, not his, an ecology of souls. But this is what is revealed on DMT is entities that are so strange that they could easily pass for extraterrestrials. What's puzzling about them is their tremendous humor and affection and intense involvement in us as human beings. Why are they there? What do they want? And they're not, if they are ancestors, they're not my ancestors. In other words, when I broke in there I didn't find my mother and my grandparents, it wasn't like that. There was no personal, it isn't like that. But there is this sense of affection, interest, caring. Well, we have the doctrine of purgatory in Western theology in the Catholic Church. I had always assumed, thinking about it, that purgatory must have been a doctrine that the church fathers, Irenaeus and Eusebius and that crowd had written into the gospel message for their own purposes. I discovered, to my amazement, that that isn't what happened at all. That St. Patrick is the person responsible for purgatory because he wrote purgatory into Christian doctrine in order to convert the Celtic peasantry of Ireland to the idea that fairyland and the Christian afterlife were the same place. And it was thought such a good idea in Rome that the doctrine became canon law generally for the church. So purgatory is a spruced up, cleaned up version of Irish fairyland to make it a little more palatable. Well, you see, this is where our anxieties come in and where it's hard to push it much further than this. An extraterrestrial contact, I think we could probably ride that through and it would be amazing, but it would be tolerable. But if what's happening is that at the end of history are waiting the dead and that our notion of reality is so skewed that we don't even know the most basic facts about the cycles of life and death and rebirth, then it's going to be quite astonishing for us, I think, to come to terms with this. And yet this is what shamans live with. This is what they tell you. They say, you know, a shaman is a person who can pass daily through the gates of death and return. We see into the other realm. We see into hyperspace. As inheritors of the rational tradition, this is pretty hard for us to swallow because I think, I mean, maybe it's not true anymore, but in my personal process of rejecting Catholicism, I did manage to convince myself that when you're dead, it's over with. And it's been very hard for me to fight my way back to the notion that that might be just 100% malarkey and nothing more than a conservative first try. And now I think much more in terms of dimensionality and that, I don't know what a form is, but the process of the fertilization of an egg, of any organism, it doesn't have to be a human being, the life of that organism and then its death and dissolution is the process of a form descending from hyperspace, clothing itself in matter, and then withdrawing from matter, returning to hyperspace. And this concept of hyperspace is very, very necessary to understanding this stuff because if you look at what shamans do that is so confounding, they find lost objects, they cure disease, they rescue lost souls, they discern secret acts, infidelities, thefts, poisonings, stuff like that. All of these magical things that they do are completely non-mysterious if we grant the idea of a higher spatial dimension. I mean, if there's a higher spatial dimension, then this section is not zipped, there's a part of it which is completely open to the world, this room is not closed, there's one direction in which it's absolutely open to the air. In other words, in hyperspace, nothing is hidden. Yeah. Give yourself a chance to breathe for a moment. Why do you think it is, I mean, we as human beings have evolved with pretty much all the equipment we need to get along and do things. Why do you think it is that we have evolved with such a poor understanding, or no understanding, of these matters of which you speak, the afterlife, the rebirth? I mean, we hear it. Many people, they hear it and they have a curiosity and they go towards it, but few people understand it. Well, I think this is a very recent phenomenon. Of, you know, culture is a narrowing, obviously. I mean, if a man can have 10 wives, two wives, no wives, one wife, well, then you go into a culture, you're going to make a choice. And all cultures represent narrowing of choices. We don't know how we could be, we don't know what we could be if we were free to evolve ourselves. I think that's the starting line that we're edging up on. We're about to have a chance to create a global culture, to decide, to essentially clean our basement and decide what we're going to save and what we're going to keep. This sense of not being connected is, to my mind, entirely rooted to what I've said here several times, the problem of the ego, but then to get a little more specific and maybe slightly more offensive, it's the monotheistic religions that have to take a real knock for the present situation. Monotheism as a philosophical reflex is understandable but simple-minded. I mean, it's what an eight-year-old would get to, you know, I mean, one God, reasonable, economical, seems to fit the situation pretty well. So what's wrong with that? Well, what's wrong with it is you've got to be a little more sensitive. Philosophy is not practiced in a void, and as Jungians know well, we mirror ourselves in our gods. Our religions are a set of permissions for how we as individuals can be, and monotheism presents us with a notion that God should be omnipresent, omnipotent, omniscient, and unforgiving, and male. Well, this is nobody you would invite to a garden party. This is what we call an asshole, you know, somebody who corners
 who's never wrong, who's totally full of their opinion, who just wants to tell you how the boar ate the cabbage and never doubts them. A boar. So we have enshrined at the center of our cultural machinery the archetype of the unbearable boar, and then we've gone out to realize it. And we try to fine-tune it. You know, we say, okay, well this Old Testament religion with all this ritual and dietary, this isn't it. So then along comes Christ and tries to fine-tune it. But, you know, he's working in the most women-repressing, male-dominator, hierarchical structure on the planet, and whatever good he does is quickly wiped out 150 years later by these clowns I mentioned, Eusebius, Irenaeus, and the rest of those guys. And then Islam comes along to twist the screws yet tighter on this monotheistic ideal. And it doesn't serve. And it was put in place because people tried to figure it out on their own. Monotheism is what you come to if full of sincerity you try to figure it out on your own. But if you will just forget being full of sincerity and take mushrooms, you will never come to this monotheistic conclusion. It just appears preposterous because the multiplicity, the shifting, unpredictable, boundary-less, maternal nature of things is what forces its presence into your consciousness. We are born in the mystery. It's all around us. Everything is provisional. And this is something worth talking about I suppose because it's a psychedelic point of view. Every society has always believed that it possessed 95% of the truth and that the next 5% would fall into place in the next 15 years. And yet these societies have just been all over the map. And we don't understand anything. In fact, we have taken a more perverse turn than most. We have substituted the incomprehensible. That's why we get these quarks and new masons and tensor equations of the third degree. We actually worship incomprehensibility as the highest form of explanation of what's going on. Say, well, I don't know what's going on. Somebody must understand it. Well, I've got news for you. If you don't understand it, what good is it that somebody understands it somewhere? I mean, you're responsible for yourself. Yet I think that all this technology, $2.5 billion worth of atom smashers, at some level is being inspired by something transcendental. To achieve love and Godhead and all that stuff. We want to know. We do want to know. And to science's credit, and this is what I love about science, is that it's not kidding itself. I mean, the thing that I go back to over and over again and that makes psychedelics different and that makes what I'm doing different is you don't have to do anything. You just have to do something. In other words, you're invited to perform an experiment, not accept a belief. And taking a psychedelic is an experiment. It's not an act of religious devotion. I mean, you may do it in a devoted and religiously sensitized way, but it's an experiment to see what happens. Psychedelics, it can be repeated. Delusion is a terrible thing. And there's a lot of it in the world, and probably psychedelics have to take the blame for some of this. I mean, all these Rishis, Roshis, Geshes, and Gurus that are running around with their hands out. This largely can be put at the feet of psychedelics. You mean, why should we blame psychedelics for this? I don't think anybody would have given any of this a thought if they hadn't had psychedelic experiences to show them that the mind is not what they assume it to be. I mean, the great impetus to Eastern religion came in the 60s when all of this stuff was happening. I wanted to ask a little further about the animal experience of time and that they are stuck in the point present. They don't have a sense of future or past. And my own experience with marijuana is that I lose my short-term memory. In my foolish days when I used to try to draw it after getting really stoned, I remember looking to the right, and it's clear, and I look to the left, and it's clear, but I forgot what it is on the right. And I'm going like this, and I can't hold anything in my mind for even that long. And it's terrible. When you're driving, it's awful. But I don't find it pleasant in any sense. When you read, you forget a paragraph, and you move on to the next paragraph. And I wondered if that's somewhat like the animal experience is like. And also I wondered if that was an attribute of mushrooms and ayahuasca, that loss of short-term memory. I don't particularly like that experience. I don't like that either. I really don't like it when it's acute. But I don't think that's necessarily a part of it. You don't want to try and pigeonhole the psychedelic experience because what it is is it's everything. Once you think you've got it figured out and that it's always going to be this, and then the next time it's completely something else. So much can be done. So much can be structured and learned. I think basically the kind of psychedelic experiences most of us have been having have been just reconnoitering. We sail over the territory and photograph the landscape and take it back and study it. But what you could do if you landed down there, what you could do if you actually learned the way of it, is I think it's very inviting. In spite of the fact that psychedelics have been around for 50,000, 100,000 years, I still can't shake the impression that it's going to have a historical impact. That they're going to eventually get around to noticing how odd it is and noticing that it's right in the center of ourselves. The real problem is getting the word out about what it is. So many people have taken a little bit of LSD or a little bit of psilocybin or something, and then they think they know what the psychedelic experience is. But you have to spend time poking around and you have to take chances. And eventually the ice will break underneath you into your absolute horror. The thing you have been trying to cause to happen will then happen. But you almost always have to trick yourself, trap yourself into it. I don't know what the limit of this stuff is. I certainly have been as stoned as I ever want to get. And I said at the time, let it be noted. I don't ever want to be more loaded than this. The film that I'm trying to produce in its message side, it deals with the issue of what do we let go of and what do we hold on to in this shrinking world of our own ethnic heritage. And as the world shrinks, there's a move towards homogeneity. And what's really happening right now is people are really pulling back into their in-group. I mean the Muslims have done this most profoundly because it's very frightening. They have to all become one. And the idea of all being a consumer of white bread homogeneity is a horrible image. The thing that people are willing to share, I find, is their cuisine. Everybody's willing to eat and explore and relish in each other's food. But the thing that nobody's willing to give up or few are willing to give up are their languages. And you can see they're talking about Quebec seceding again from Canada. But there's something about our attachment to language that's really potent. You're giving up not just, I mean, it's a world view. It is really our self. I mean that we also are made of language. I said the world is made of language. Note that you are part of that world and are made of language. I don't know whether the appetite for stuff will drive people to abandon their fear of merging.
 a lot is going to be lost. A lot has been lost. I mean, the extinction of the mammals that began 50,000 years ago. It was 50,000 years ago that was the greatest number of mammal species on earth. There's been steadily falling species since about that time, mostly due to human predation. And, you know, we're not going to bring back the giant ground sloth, and the woolly mammoth, and the glyptodont. They're gone for good. And there's no getting away from the poignancy of this process. The cruise is over. We're in the lifeboats. The ship is going to sink. The question is, how does this adventure end? But there's no question that there's going to be a lot of loss and redefinition. I mean, usually in these weekends, we get to a place where it comes down to being, you know, this thing about the space issue. Because people love it, and they hate it. And it has a lot to do with how you relate to the male ego. Because it's the engineering dream come true, you know. And nature disappears. You replace it with black vacuum, and you say, here we will erect the palaces and whorehouses of the human imagination. We can make them the size of moons. We can do this and that. And the beauty that is within us gives me a lot of hope for that. My God, the expression of the design process in this world is certainly awful. I mean, our world is visually hideous, the part of it touched by human beings. And that's very puzzling to me. Because when you take psychedelics, you discover within the human body-mind the same kind of transcendent beauty that you see in the rainforest and the arctic tundra and all that. I mean, immense beauty. And yet, we seem to have a very hard time translating it into the design process. Art is, you know, we haven't really talked that much about art in relationship to all this. But the politics of the situation here in this millennial crisis, I think the reasonable response is to push the art pedal right through the floor. The way to escape the present cul-de-sac is an enormous outbreak of creativity of all sorts. We just need to overwhelm ourselves with creative expression. This could be very easily done. We've been in the habit of binding about 60% of our social energy into a standing crop of weapons. And whatever creativity is expressed in the production and design of these weapons, it goes on behind closed doors in the most excessively testosterone-festered environment you can possibly imagine, which is a military weapons research laboratory. But if we weren't caught up in that, if we could really direct the resources the way we want, we have no idea how rich we are and how perverse our distribution of resources is. I mean, a single F-16 fighter plane standard equipage costs $120 million, one of these fighter planes. They order them in lots of 500. If somebody were to give $120 million to the new age, define that any way you like, or to me, or to you. But that's a lot of money. But if you spend it on a fighter plane, it's not a lot of money. You can park a fighter plane in an area twice the size of this room, and there it sits. Useless unless Armageddon should come along. It's about the most useless thing you could do with $120 million. And yet, if you gave that to the sincere, the insincere, the half-sincere, and let them all go off and do with it what they want, society would be a much richer place, and many more interesting possibilities would be developed. So part of saving the world, I think, is to make people angry, to make people absolutely furious with the way we are being managed. The human enterprise is being managed by idiots. And I don't say they're vindictive idiots, but the case could certainly be made. But give or take that, they're idiots. And we don't have forever, you know. In fact, we have, I think, a very short amount of time to take hold and to insist that human values, which none of us have much trouble accessing. I mean, I'm not saying we're all Albert Schweitzer, but we know what it means to be Albert Schweitzer. Why are our institutions unable to project the human values that we personally are able to feel? And then why do we tolerate that? Why are boys in charge of everything? It just doesn't make any kind of sense. Working our way out of this is just going to require shock treatment. And that's what this shamanic option represents. I mean, I wouldn't preach this if I didn't think the situation were fairly desperate. It's a radical option. It's not a reasonable option. It's a quick fix, because quick is the only fix that counts now. This is not a debating society, the crisis confronting this planet. It's a life or death situation. I don't see any other option. Terrence, is there any value in looking at the dichotomy of the natural evolutionary self-destruction of the planet, the toxicity of volcanic eruptions, the ice ages, the shifting of the polar axis and plate tectonics? All that is going on, and we seem to be a minor player in the rearrangement of matter on the planet compared to what it naturally does itself. And what about that? What about that? Well, you're right. The Earth is now understood to be an extremely dynamic environment, locally and globally. As a local example that some of you can relate to, in the last 100,000 years, tidal waves up to 2,000 feet high have occurred locally in the Hawaiian Islands because of sloughing off the face of those islands into deep sea trenches. The International Geophysical Congress has held meetings about this. I've seen the physical evidence of it myself. A 2,000 foot tidal wave, you would shit white if you saw this. I mean, it's just inconceivable. A 50 foot tidal wave is appalling. On a global scale, 65 million years ago, something crashed down on this planet and nothing on this planet larger than a chicken walked away from it. Dramatic? You bet. This happened between breakfast and lunch one day. So yes, I think the Earth is a very dynamic place, and part of this psychedelic message is shake the mud off your shoes, monkeys. You can't always count on it to be like it is. I mean, the mushroom has a kind of a hortatory personality, and it sometimes says things which I don't necessarily agree with that are slightly alarming. I mean, one of its favorite themes is if you don't have a plan, you're going to end up part of somebody else's plan. And it's speaking to me as a person, it's speaking to human beings as a species. If you don't have a plan, you're going to end up being part of somebody else's plan. The sun has a limited lifespan. There are serious problems with the sun that are not discussed at all, much, except in the scientific literature. It would take major revisions of nuclear theory, which has been in place without revision for nearly 50 years, it would take major revisions of nuclear theory to explain why there isn't something wrong with the sun. The sun is not emitting neutrinos at nearly the rate it should be if it's a healthy atomic furnace. Is it possible that sometime in the last 100,000 years, the nuclear fires of the sun have actually slipped off the main sequence? There's an appalling possibility. You see, if that were to happen, the neutrino flux from the nuclear furnace at the center of the sun would instantly drop.
 It would be measured within eight minutes on the Earth, the drop in the neutrino flux. But all physical manifestations of this process would not appear for about 70,000 years. The period of time it takes for core solar material to percolate to the surface. So the neutrino drop would be registered virtually instantly, but it would take 70,000 years for any other thing. Well, you know, if that's what's happening, if the Sun is going into some state of instability, well then we look back in the geological record and what do you see? Nine times in the past five million years, ice five miles deep has moved south from the poles. What the hell is that about? And you go further back in the record and you don't find this. People don't realize this. This planet existed for close to five billion years before there was glaciation. Glaciation is a brand new phenomenon on this planet. Why is it happening? Well, the obvious place to look is the energy dynamics of the home star. Is it possible then that we're riding an edge more precarious than we know? Is it possible that bios, life on this planet, actually senses limitations and constraints? And that we are, we have been summoned. We are a, we, I mentioned stopgap solutions. We are a stopgap solution. About two million years ago, the biospheric mind of the planet said, my God, the Sun has just gone off the main sequence. We have approximately a million years to organize some kind of arc out of here. A species must be deputized to release energy and to manipulate matter. This species must be brought forward and made dominant species over the Earth. And out of that technology, we can perhaps fashion an escape. In other words, you know, we are something that has been called forth out of nature because of unusual dynamics on a very large scale. Well, this is a possibility. Can I ask you a question? Sure. I had a fantasy. I heard your tape about the evolution of the brain, the next evolution. I mean, it doesn't make any rational sense, but we don't always make rational sense of it. What about the mushroom growing within the brain? I mean, actually not taking it in, but... You mean becoming physically symbiotic? Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, Brian Aldiss wrote a book called The Long Afternoon of Earth in which he envisioned a human fungal symbiosis that was so close that people actually had a lump on their shoulder and it went directly into the head. I find this kind of thing a little too creature feature-ish. But it is. I mean, I have had the notion, not a notion, it was more like a delusion at certain times, and I can't explain it to you, I will just tell it to you, that really the big secret about human beings is that there are three sexes, male, female, and mushroom. And this third sex is some... I mean, I haven't worked out the genetics of it or how in the world we could have gotten so far without understanding this, but it's that notion that it's wedded into us at that level. And of course the mushroom, I don't know if it's this way for women too, and it's subtle, it's smart, it's tricky, tricky, tricky, tricky, and it uses you against yourself, not viciously, it's just very matter-of-factly knows a hundred times more about you than you do yourself. And it presents itself as this 4D girlfriend, you know. It's the Soror Mystica of alchemy. It's the invisible female companion. I had a dream a few months ago that... I don't know if I gave birth or someone gave birth to these children who were like part mushroom, you know, and they were part fungus, and I felt very loving towards them, but they were actually like, you know, beings. But they were like part mushroom and part human. It was all very sweet, you know, it wasn't ghoulish or anything. Well, yeah, I mean, the symbiosis is coming together. One of the funny insights that I had that I don't try to make sense of, that I in fact don't believe, but I thought it, and it was an emotionally opening thought, though it's absurd on the face of it, was when I was in the Amazon in these pastures, looking at these pastures full of these mushrooms, I kept thinking, you know, it's the lost part of the human brain. It's that part of us is in these fields, that this mushroom, this is human flesh, this flesh. It's a strange kind of human, but hell, we're about to give legal rights to fetuses. We might as well extend legal rights to mushrooms and make them voting citizens. Because, you see, it's intelligent. It's intelligent, it loves you, it can blow your mind, it can make you laugh, it can make you cry. There's no other way to relate to something like that except to love it in spite of yourself. I mean, you know, this is how you seduce someone. You make them laugh, you make them cry, you move them. You get them to drop their barriers, you get them to not be afraid. This is what it does to us. It seduces us back into this relationship, and I think we return to it with an immense sense of relief. It's just like, ah, you know? When I was in Guatemala, I did not take a deep breath for three weeks because I could feel the oppression, the artificiality of it. It's in the air, the evil, and you don't even get used to it. But when you cross back into Mexico, you just say, my God, what was that? And that's what history is for us. We're living under siege conditions here. No wonder it's a little hard to connect up with your higher self. We're living in a foxhole, for God's sake. But, you know, if we could realize our situation, then there would be a possibility of change. What I thought we would do this morning, because these things are so brief, is again return to the form of going around in a circle. And this time, it's your last chance to ask a question, make a statement, voice a complaint, whatever you want to do. But just to try and, in other words, it's loose ends time. As rapidly as we can to tie up loose ends, things people didn't understand, things people feel they need to hear more about, that sort of thing. And why don't we just start as we did before on this side and go around. I'd like to hear a more satisfactory explanation of what archaic revival means. I haven't got it straightened out. I suspect it means a return to a more stable state when there's too much chaos in the present. And I'm sure that's not what you mean. Well, that's partially what it is. It's based on the idea that when societies get into trouble, an unconscious response seems to be they search back through their own history to find a model that they can revivify or revitalize. The strongest example in our own history was when the medieval world broke apart and didn't make any sense anymore. The new middle class went back to classicism, to the Greeks and the Romans, to Roman law, Greek philosophy, and Greco-Roman architecture and mechanics and that sort of thing, and created classicism. Classicism was invented in the 14th century. But our problems are deeper than this. We can't go back to ancient Rome or ancient Egypt or something like that and expect to have real answers. We have to go back further, to prehistory, to this archaic state. And there...
 in partnership, in genderless, self-organizing society, we begin to see the kinds of models that we have to somehow recreate in the modern world. Obviously, we can't in the modern world become mushroom-eating nomadic pastoralists, but we can study that approach to reality to try and learn from it how you live in equilibrium. That's the key thing that the archaic world knew that we don't know. How do you live in equilibrium so that your children may live in equilibrium? Because otherwise, you get a cycle started that's going to shove somebody over the cliff, and that somebody, in the present case, is either ourselves, our children, or their children. It's no further away in time than that. So the archaic revival is the idea that all of the... And I see the whole of the 20th century, the discovery of the unconscious by Freud and Jung, the dissolving of the naturalistic image at the hands of the cubists, the probing of the dream state by the surrealists, the exploration of mass ritual by the fascists. I mean, it wasn't all good, this stuff. But what all these things had in common was they were a return, an appeal, to a level of the mass psyche that had been ignored and denied for a long, long time. The LSD taking of the 60s was the same kind of thing. And, you know, I come out pretty strongly from McLuhan in the idea that as the emphasis, as the ratios of the mix of media in a society changes, the sensory ratios and values of the society change. And we're living in a post-literate, post-linear kind of world now, where a whole different set of assumptions make sense. And they're archaic assumptions. You know, the archaic world was a non-linear, pre-literate, audial, all-at-once kind of world. And the fact that our sensory ratios have shifted back in that direction makes us very sympathetic, very susceptible to this re-archaicization that wants to go on. Thank you. I guess the ultimate psilocybin question is, can you envision, Terrence, in your wildest imagination, that we as a society, a set of individuals taking mushrooms and gaining some enlightenment that we will ever be able to do it in an organized, mass way? Do you have that vision? You mean that someday it will be legal? Legal and encouraged, you know, the mass taking of... Well, obviously it would take a total revolution. The current thinking is that the big revolutions in the world have to do with the internal contradictions of Marxist-Leninism. But it may actually be that Marxist-Leninism was a kind of partner in a codependent relationship with consumer capitalism. And maybe revolution is just going to become something that everybody is into. God knows, we could use a perestroika. I mean, we too are ruled by constipated, lying bureaucrats who... You know, what are the statistics? That 97% of all incumbents are re-elected? That there is less turnover in the United States Congress than there was in the higher echelons of the Communist Party of East Germany until the wall came down? I mean, we love to congratulate ourselves on the forward-leaning liberal society that we live in. And the truth is, you know, it's a bunch of rattlesnake-handling fundamentalists that are much closer to Stalin than they are to FDR or anybody else like that. Still, I think that the culture crisis is going to become so intense and the world is going to become so weird, as we saw on the graph last night. Novelty is going to intensify and intensify and intensify. And even last year, when Eastern Europe was falling to pieces, very straight people were saying, gee, it seems as though history itself is accelerating. Well, then there was a lull, so that talk was dropped. But I think history is accelerating, and the next time it accelerates, the talk that this is happening will come around again much louder. And pretty soon, by the turn of the century, I think it's going to be hard to hide from anybody who's paying attention the fact that the entire social evolution of the planet seems to be caught in some kind of evolutionary meltdown that is imminent. And in that environment, psilocybin has a chance. The whole drug thing, leave alone psychedelics, the whole drug thing is properly understood as a civil rights issue. I mean, people should be able to take whatever drugs they damn well please in the same way that they should be able to express their sexual preferences, in the same way that women should be allowed to vote, people of low incidence of light reflectivity should be treated like everybody else, and all these things which are perfectly obvious. You cannot have a free society and regulate people's drug use. Any society which sets out to call itself free and democratic with the footnote that certain states of mind are forbidden is headed down the slippery slopes of totalitarianism. There is no way this can be avoided. So, aside from our belief as a group in the wonderful healing and teaching potential of psychedelics, even if psychedelic drugs didn't exist, I would favor the legalization of all drugs because I just think that you cannot treat people as though they were infantile. That's called paternalism. That's the old dominator game. We have to just admit that we're all in this together and that nobody has cornered the market on the truth for sure. Could you talk a little bit more about seeing language? Well, this is, to my mind, the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow of the psychedelic experience. These experiences get stronger and stronger and stronger, and then language becomes visible. And then, if they become any stronger, you fall asleep. That seems to be about the outer limit of what the internal processors can tolerate. Seeing language, it's a mystery. It's a miracle. I don't know what it is. It's the thing which keeps me going with all of this because it's the idea that we're just on the brink of some kind of transformation of how we communicate with each other that will change not only how we communicate, but who we are. Because see, if you could see what I mean rather than hear me and run to your internal dictionary and look up all my words and then reconstruct my meaning, but if you could just see what I mean, then you and I would be very much like the same person because we would be looking at the same thing. Obviously, language is what has knitted us together and made us social creatures. Creatures of our body weight and so forth have styles where the males and the females get together only for sex and once a year, like mountain lions or something like that. But obviously, the presence of language and our social history as primates set us up for living as we do. And we have managed to create, through language, a monkey troop of five billion people. A monkey troop of five billion individuals united through the glue of language. So it's an intensification and it's something shamans do. And I think it's the real social magic of shamanism, at least in the Amazon, is based around this visible communication.
 And it's like the difference between sculpture and music. And music and language take place as a succession of elements through time. So it requires a duration to understand. But sculpture and seeing things, it's all in a single moment. At least the sculpture that the objects beheld in a single moment. The aesthetics of an object, of a sculptured object, is the relationship of part to part and part to the whole in a single moment. But music is the succession of elements in time. And somehow I think that relates to your... When you talk about seeing language, you're talking about seeing little creatures. The words being creatures. And so then you're observing these creatures. Are they coming out like music through time? Or can an idea, a sentence, be seen all at once? They're coming out through time and a sentence can be seen all at once. Because in a way your analogy is not apt. Because sculpture is static. But these visible statements are like sculpture made of some magical substance which has an internalized program of change. The analogy I always make is to the eggs of Faberg. These things are like machines, jewels. But you can also tell when you're looking at them that they're statements. They're like... You know how people talk about beautifully crafted sentences? Well, these are beautifully crafted sentences but they're like exquisite, interlocking, mechanized things made out of ivory and glass and topaz and chrome and just... And they're carrying on at a furious rate. They have a life in time. I would like to write a computer program that would be like a full paint type program but it would be for the purpose of generating these kinds of objects. Because I've seen them a fair bit and analyzed what's going on and here's how it works. You have a dodecahedron or some other complex regular polygon so that it's made of surfaces. And then to each surface you assign a set of color and frequency changes. And then each surface can run its program independent of all the other surfaces. So you slowly build up a program on each surface. But then you can also cut into this polygon and remove chunks of it to reveal another polygon inside it that can have different programs written for each of its surfaces. And then you set these things slowly rotating one within another on several levels. And you're beginning to approach a really shoddy example of what these things are like that you see in this space. Beats me. Most of this stuff is repertoire. I've heard you speak often about these incredibly complex images that you received on psilocybin or DMT. I'm just wondering if you've ever had an experience of total emptiness or voidness. The most profound experience I've ever had on psilocybin was actually being void of any content at all. But not being like blanked out or something like that. I think this may have something to do with philosophical bent and proclivity. I've never got any of these zenny states. The white light, the black light. And it's probably in my personality. I really stress visual hallucinations. And people have hassled me about this and said, you know, but psychedelics open your heart. They do this, they do that. And all you ever talk about is visions. It's because, to me, the vision is the proof. And I guess I'm still a skeptic after all these years. The vision is the proof that it's not me. Because if I've never seen it before, hell, I'm willing to grant it's not me if I've never seen it before. How difficult a character do you have to be, you know? So when there's things I've never seen before that are absolutely amazing streaming past my closed eyelids, I have to grant that it isn't coming from me. And that thin thread can be the basis of a bridge to faith. If it isn't me, then there's something out there. God, the devil, who knows? But at least somebody, now we can begin to have a serious spiritual quest. You know, there is a signal. We're getting a signal from the other. And it can be pursued. But it's the task of a lifetime. Well, now I hear you mention faith. And it seems like yesterday morning you said something along the line of, you know, I'm not a believer in any sense of the word. But what I wanted to ask you is, in the context of the chemicals in the brain and the pineapple and so forth, what do you think of fasting as a way of altering consciousness? Fasting, I think, is probably very effective. If you analyze this whole rap here about the early mushrooms and the primates and all that, really what's being said is that diet is the key, that foods are very important. And this is what they're saying about ayahuasca in the Amazon. They say half of it is ayahuasca. But the learning of the shamanism and the becoming of this superhuman type of personality is all in the diet. And shamans in the Amazon, when they're trying to establish their credentials with each other, do it by saying how long they kept the diet. Somebody will say, well, I did it for two years or something like that. I just thought of something about the shamans in the Amazon. You know this magic phlegm that they bring up? Right. What do they do with it? Do they spit it out finally or swallow it back down or what? What do they ultimately do with it? It's hard to find out stuff like this when you're a guest. I don't know. I didn't see where it went. Did you see it? I've seen it. Because if they use this to pull a disease out of somebody or poison or some kind of illness-causing thing, if it's like a magnet that pulls this out, then if they just keep this inside of them, that wouldn't be very safe, I would think. Well, talking about what it is and judging whether it's safe or not, what is this phlegm in the first place? When you're really there, really dealing with it, you're pushed toward ideas like that it's a zone of space-time which repels English. What? I mean, in other words, it's a magical substance. It comes out of their body. Calling it phlegm is because we're following some anthropologist in the 1920s who went back to his tent scratching his head and tried to figure out what the nearest analogy to this was. But what they do is they also, in some of these tribes, the story goes that they can force this stuff out on the surface of their skin. And I don't know what this is about, but I have had ayahuasca visions where it's like a black field and suddenly there's a huge, huge black hand and I can see in the lines of this hand jewels. And it's just there, this black hand. It's not your hand. It's not my hand, it's a black hand. Where does it come from? I mean, is it on your hand? No, it's like in a vision. And then I see in the lines what I thought were jewels is some kind of sweat which is seeping out. And you look deeper into this stuff and you see that wonderful line from 2001. My God, there are stars in here. And it's completely disorienting. No, the magic, the magic is real. I have no idea how far you can go. I mean, one of the paradoxes of what we're doing here in this room is, you know, here I sit. I have two children, a wife, a mortgage, book contracts, lawyer, all this. Here you sit with whatever you brought to this. And we're talking about this stuff. If any one of us cared to, we could turn ourselves into something that none of the rest of us could relate to at all. We could become a sage. You know, you could go up onto Cold Mountain and those of us left down in the valley would say, oh yes, I saw him three years ago up in the mist, naked as a jaybird hauling firewood out of the woods. These places...
 there's no barrier between you and these places, except you're, is that what you want, you know? Do you want to become utterly incomprehensible to the community because you are so deep into the unspeakable? Maybe, and that's what a shaman is. A shaman is somebody who's just on the edge. They just have one finger back in the world of the rest of us and then they're in this stuff. Well, seeking that used to be called the spiritual quest, but as I said to you, we found the means to do that. We found the answer. You just go and live in the wilderness and take mushrooms and, you know, co-hung, move over. But what to do about that? I don't know. I mean, I really don't know because I'm attracted to it. I want to go as far as I can go. And when you realize that you can go so far that nobody will even remember that you ever existed, the other can close over you so utterly. Well, the reason I ask is because a lot of times they say that, you know, that gurus and different people take on the karma of the people that they heal or they work with. You know, you've probably heard this theory before. And so I wondered when these shamans were healing, if they magnetized out some kind of illness or something, where does that go? Well, they have, yes, they're very concerned about the power of this illness and they have techniques. And many times after a big curing, a shaman will fall sick. And, you know, if you want to understand this, read Jung's book called On the Psychology of the Transference. It's the same in all cultures. You must be able to turn back the transference if you're a healer. Otherwise you'll be killed ultimately. And all psychiatrists, psychotherapists understand this. Or if they don't, they're at great peril. Did anyone happen to see a film called From Beyond? And the premise was that there was a machine that induced visions into the spiritual realm and stimulated the pineal gland. And what happens is a couple of people, the inventor and someone else, they looked on the machine and the pineal gland started growing out of their forehead. Ah, Hollywood! It was big on special effects. And the one guy, his whole body was just like totally transformed. He was always on this machine and so forth. It reminded me of what your kind of electronic artificial version of... Yeah, well, this is also coming, you know, artificial technologies. Where are we in this process? Well, I'm quite satisfied with the questions at the moment, but I'm commenting on that with respect to the pineal gland and visions. The pineal gland feeds directly from the ocular nerve with no interceding brain tissue. It's just a direct connection. So the colors that one takes in are directly responsible for the particular secretions of that gland, which is one of the reasons why television is described as being difficult on people and causes real hormonal problems if you watch it enough because you're dealing with a very restricted spectrum of colors and that sort of thing. The additional thought occurred to me that everyone who's watching television at the same time, their nervous system is being pulsed at 30 times a second, even though they're not conscious of it. But every TV set in the whole United States is exactly in sync with each other all at 30 times a second. It's like this sub-audible dial tone that's going through everyone's brains, which has kind of an ominous tone to it. The one comment I wanted to make was having recently read a book by Gurdjieff called Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson, which is about the only book I've ever read that even pertains to the sort of cosmic time scale that Terence talks about enough. One of the warnings in the beginning of the book was that if you read this with enough attention, you'll eventually lose the taste for your favorite dessert, and the particularly attractive person across the street that you like to watch won't seem nearly so interesting anymore. So be forewarned, you may not want to read this stuff. And to a certain extent, I feel that's quite possible. You think the cosmic view kills the trivial, the joy of trivial? The joy of trivial. The curse of mysticism. Well, I don't know. Your thing about television and everybody being in sync, one of the most creative and eccentric explanations ever dreamed up for Flying Saucers rested on the fact that the guy said, in the United States, on an average evening, 40 million people are all in sync watching TV, and if there then is a storm on the sun, it acts as a kind of coherent energy beam which illuminates these millions of psyches that are all synchronized by watching television, and it causes an image of an archetype to be projected into space on the other side of the planet. Not my theory. Well, definitely, in image processing, when you want to, you know, computer image processing, when you want to draw a very fuzzy sort of pattern, quite often what you do is interfere with that, another regular pattern on top of it, and see how these two patterns co-mingle, and you'll get an accentuated thing as a result, and this 30 hertz dial tone is definitely sort of illuminating this other aspect of the imagination, it would seem. Maybe. You ought to read A Wrinkle in Time. Have you read that? No. Read A Wrinkle in Time. It's supposed to be a children's story. It's almost exactly what you just said. It's a great story. By? Madeline Linder. Read the whole trilogy. It's great. It's great. Back there. I'm interested in what you feel your relationship is with these, you know, whatever you want to call them, beings that come to you. Are you, are we, you know, their offspring somehow, or, you know? Well, I don't know. This has puzzled me for a long, long time. When it first happened, I just thought that they were straight-out extraterrestrials, and that this was some kind of weird technology where this was a contact between a species that evolved off-planet, and then, but they're like, they're interdimensional dwellers of some sort. And I, so then I thought, well, maybe they're just hyperspatial creatures of some sort in some other dimension that I can't even imagine. And then I thought, maybe they're actually from the future. It's like maybe this is a future state of humanity that we're actually going to look like this in ten million years, and they're doing some kind of weird experiment with time, and I'm the Neanderthal that they're checking out. And then the other possibility, which I mentioned here, which is really unsettling, but in a lot of ways fills the bill better than any of these, which is they're souls of some sort. They're human beings. And when you try that on for size, it's pretty hair-raising because it feels right, and yet your mind boggles. I mean, you're not, I am not ready to believe that you can smoke a drug and cross over the Great Divide and return ten minutes later. That really strains my credulity. Nevertheless, if you ask shamans, this is what they would say. After having many DMT trips, I came to realize that this place that you break into where the gnomes greet you with this huge hooray and all this linguistic machinery is happening and so forth, that alien as that place is, it's somebody's idea of a reassuring environment for a human being. It's somebody's idea of the equivalent of a playpen. And these colored machine linguistic object things are the equivalent of colored rattles and things strung on a string. And you're just sitting there, you know, gaping, and they're saying, don't freak out, pay attention, learn to do this.
 this, I don't know, maybe, I mean, first of all, nothing is impossible, no possible speculation is foreboding, right? So maybe it is that we've gone too far, and maybe it is that this planet is doomed, and maybe it is that somehow that too is part of the plan. Borges had this idea, he said that, he believed in what he called the soul of the species, and he said the soul of the species is not released into the higher dimensions until the last individual member of the species dies. As long as there is a single member of the species alive, the soul of the species is somehow in some kind of transient zone, but when the last member of the species dies, then it goes off. Well, if you look at the fossil record, 95% of all the species that have ever lived on the earth are extinct. From that point of view, it looks as though biology is a process for producing extinction. Well then, what is it? Is it that in the world of three-dimensional space and time and matter and energy, the DNA rears a form which inhabits a region of time and space called the body, and then at a certain point, this form withdraws into something, and what the matter that it had previously organized just falls to pieces. I don't know, but the entities in the DMT place are a real challenge. They either are the dead extraterrestrials or interdimensional dwellers. Any one of these is a headline in the supermarket checkout line, I assure you. I'm not exactly sure what I want to ask you, but I did recently have a dream that we were all linked together, and it seemed like you had the same experience. I'm not sure I'm feeling that, to know if you have anything else to say about that in relationship to affecting others. Well, I think that we cannot evolve, we can't change the world any faster than we can change the language we use to talk about it, and changing language is a collective activity. You empower means. I talked about this. You create a concept and then you empower it by spreading it, and by communicating it clearly enough that in the act of spreading it, it doesn't get badly copied and get all mushed up, so that after it's been copied ten times, you can't recognize it. I mean, I sometimes have this experience. People quote me to myself, and I'm just amazed, and sometimes it turns out it's verbatim, and I'm still amazed, but the linking together is through the evolution of language, and we've never, ever attempted to engineer language. We've always let it just grow like topsy, not realizing that certain language habits are very toxic. Certain language patterns give permission for very detrimental ways of thinking. I mean, for instance, the subject-object relationship in English, or the assignment of gender to things that goes on in a lot of languages, these are habits of language that then become tremendous social problems for their inheritance. The use of the word it. It's raining. It's sunny. What is sunny? Or the I. I mean, there are languages where there is no first-person pronoun. The only way you can refer to yourself is by the extremely clumsy form, this person. This person thinks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was curious. You've mentioned D&T and visions of, I think you said, Go-Ducky Key drawings and things like that, and then you mentioned they're saying to you to kind of stay with it and just hang in there. I'm kind of curious about this dialogue and the logos in psilocybin. I mean, do they sound the same? How do you know that it's just not your own? Howard Cosell commenting in the back of the mind. How do you know it isn't your own mind? Yeah, and is there a way to break through to begin a dialogue, or does it just start going like a table? No, it doesn't start going. You have to invoke it. This is an interesting thing. If you're practically inclined, it won't speak to you. You have to speak to it, and you come into a certain place on the mushroom, which I now, based on having done it a number of times, recognize the territory and say, aha, it's now possible to communicate with the thing. You must know the old I Love Lucy episode where they do the thing about, come in, little green men, come in, little green men, Ethel and Lucy are into this. I tried that, and you hear this thing, which sounds like the tinkling of bells, the distant tinkling of bells. What it is, is it's literally, it's the elf troop, or the elf troop marching band and chowder society. You can hear them getting nearer and nearer. It's like, and it gets louder and louder. At a certain point, you begin not to hear it, but to see it. It gets brighter and brighter, and clearer and clearer. Finally, they're all around you, and jumping up and down, and saying, how do you like it, McKinney, and all this other stuff that they say. They're gnomes. You couldn't miss it. I'm still me, of course. I'm still just as I would be sitting here. It's so hard to assimilate. That's why I say, sitting here in a room talking about this stuff is nothing as to being out there signing treaties with the foes. That, to me, is what may be part of following up a little bit on the question. When you say Logos, is this the machine elves? Are they the Logos? No, the Logos is something a little subtler, that's actually stuck with me ever since La Chaire. It's just a quality of thinking that I recognize to be clearer and deeper than my own. It usually takes the form of, why don't you try this with regard to some problem? Why don't you try this? I know immediately it'll work. It's got the tone. That's the real thing. I just go and do it, and it always works. It's these evolved ideas. I can understand that that's your subjective experience. Some people don't get the machine elves and things like that that I've talked to, but you mentioned the mark of this was terror. I can already realize that being in that domain is enough of a terror in itself, but you said the mark of the proof of this was the trip. Some of these trips were terrorizing for you, but I'm trying to understand. There must be something else going on that's enabling you to feel terror. It's the implications are what's terrifying, because you know that amazing moment in Rosemary's Baby where she's in the dream, and then she sits up and she says, My God, this is really happening. Well, that happens to you in the DMT thing. You realize at the center of it, this is not a drug. That's preposterous. A drug? Are you kidding me? Drugs make you feel good or bad or fall down or disgrace yourself. This is not a drug. It's something masquerading as a drug. It's as appalling as if they were about to give you the umbilical examination that Whitley Strieber specializes in. You're inside a flying saucer. You're with things that in a moment before you would have laughed at the possibility that they even existed, and now you're there, and you feel completely normal. You don't feel drugged or dulled or distanced or high or low. You just feel stoned amazed at what has happened to reality and how it's all been replaced by this.
 thing that not only did you never suspect its existence, but nobody ever suspected its existence. You talk about a well-kept secret that's only two tokes away? How do they keep the lid on this? That's the miracle to me. How do they keep the lid on this? Well, they have. Well, I'm not sure what my question is, but in the experience last night with the computer time program, that was real exciting to me. It kind of made me almost have the experience of traveling through time and having that awareness of history, and wondering now that you brought that out and we have the awareness, what do we really use it for? I mean, what is your vision for how it can truly be used? If you understand history, you will see it in the present. It's an amazing tool for enriching your own experience. If you, when you go to get a hamburger at Hadrian's Hamburger Joint, know that this is happening because you're caught in a resonance related to the expeditions of the Roman Emperor Hadrian to Scotland. I mean, you're totally schizophrenic, of course, to entertain thoughts like this, but it makes life a lot more interesting. Instead of seeing a linear thing with a fading past and an unpredictable future, you live in a super rich kind of baklava style of time, where time is folded and folded and folded, and the layers are very thin, and the stuff between is very sweet. How have you used that personally in your life? Well, the other way you use it is, of course, it predicts the future. We saw the line going off into the future. Well, I've had it in my possession since 1972, so after you've watched it correctly predict the future for a while, months or years, however long it takes, you gain confidence in it. And as you gain confidence in it, you discover that it gives you permission to let go of anxiety about the future. You've got a map of the future. You know that August 91 is going to be a pain in the ass. You know that great triumph will come to you in January of 93, so why worry about it? You just then go and live your life, and as you watch the wave unfold, confidence grows and grows and grows, and what's happening, you see, is without any fanfare or alien symbiosis, you're becoming a hyperspatial person. You're adding a dimension to your view of the world. The future is changing from a question mark into a map that you're quite confident is working for you. And anxiety about the future is a major thing twisting people around. So if you could get agreement on this, it's the Tao. Live in the perception of the Tao. It's just people didn't ever think that would mean you'd go and look at a printed output from a computer, but the exhortation is the same. Live according to the constraints of the Tao. Gain and loss are the same. Yeah. I thoroughly enjoyed this weekend. It has really given me much room for thought, eons and years from now even. And I'm very interested in what the best setup is for taking the mushrooms. The amount, time of day, condition, whatever. I think there must be, in your experience, I'm sure you've tried all of them, there must be one way that perhaps lends itself better to the mushroom than others. How to get into the trip. Well yes, I haven't said it this weekend, but it's practically a battle cry of mine. It's five grams in silent darkness on an empty stomach. And I'll explain it. Five grams. Now when you must weigh it, a lot of people take mushrooms and when you show them what five grams is, they pale visibly. It's dry? Yeah, five dried grams. And it's several mouthfuls. And I'm speaking for a 145 pound person, obviously if you weigh 90 pounds you back it up a little. And if you weigh 230 you might go a little up. But five dried grams on an empty stomach, all that means is don't eat for six hours. Silent darkness. Silent. And a lot of people disagree with me about this and they want to listen to the moody blues and they want Bach and they want this. Forget it. Nobody's going to listen to you if you come out of this experience saying Johann Sebastian Bach is God. We know that. And it's very confusing because the music becomes everything if you listen to it. You cannot separate it from the trip. And people will not believe that the trip without music will be just as rich as the trip with music because they've already decided they're inadequate. That out of their own depths they couldn't possibly produce a psychedelic experience. So let's have the B minor mass thrown in just to help it along a little here. So silence. Silent darkness. And then darkness. Why darkness? Because the hallucinations actually need darkness in order to form. They form behind closed eyelids. And so what I do is I clear the decks and I try to pick a point in my life when I don't feel too anxious and oppressed by trivia. I unplug all the phones. I get rid of every obligation. I roll up three or four bombers and I then wait on an empty stomach and about nine o'clock at night I take it and I just sit as I'm sitting now waiting for it to come on. Once I've taken it I am completely in the sacral space even though I don't feel anything for an hour and twenty minutes. Some people do the ironing and you know chop up some stock or something but I just sit. And then it begins to come on. Some people say it comes on very quickly and so forth and so on. For me it usually doesn't really come on until the hour and twenty minute mark. There may be a surge of nausea at forty minutes or a need to take a leak or something like that but then I get back and resettle. And at an hour and twenty minutes it comes. And it comes as a wave. It's literally, it's almost like a very sheer silk scarf just drops over me. Just settles over and I think oh my god here it comes, here it comes. And then it comes and it's a wave of hallucination. And if I, well I gauge it but at that point I smoke. And something about the cannabis synergy meeting the psilocybin rush, I mean it is spectacular. I mean you think that everybody from Vancouver to Tijuana must have just thrown themselves on the ground as this thing. I mean it feels like the sun exploded. It feels like you're watching through eleven feet of quartz crystal a hydrogen furnace on the other side. You cannot believe the release of energy. It's like a siren comes on. A siren which you hear and feel. A siren which shakes your body and the building that you're in and everything else. And then it just pushes you out into who knows. Long periods of time where not a word of it will ever be reported to any other human being. I mean you see things that nobody has ever seen and will ever see again. You're into it and it's an infinite matrix in all directions. And it means something. It doesn't just look pretty. It's playing on the harp of your soul with the emotional overtones. Have you ever taken it and gone outside? Yes and I don't do that very much because I really try to control the setting because the freakiest things happen. I mean if you in any way lift your foot off the pedal of controlling the parameters of the setting the damnedest things will happen. I mean grizzly bears will break into your house. Motorcycle gangs will arrive. Foxes will attack. It's weird to go outside. Do you eat the mushrooms or just drink the tea? No I eat the mushroom. Do you have eyeshade on? No I just sit in darkness but I really pursue talk.
 total darkness. I mean, I won't, you know... What specific species of mushroom is the best? Are there several different species? There are many species, but the only one you'll ever encounter, unless you're a specialist, is Strepharia cubensis. That's the one that people grow, and that is an item of underground commerce. And it's the one that grows in the dung of the white cows, and it's the one that I'm implicating in the evolution of a human being. Over here. Just back to language for a minute. I don't really have a question, just to reiterate a couple of things I said yesterday. You. I'm trying to break into my own computer and stop habitual behavior. How long will it go? Starting with language, just picking the phrases or words that you use the most when you're lazy. It could be profanity, or outrageous, amazing, very interesting. Awesome. There's a long, long list. Those are all cop-outs, I think. If you can stop yourself at that moment and say, wait a minute, that's not really expressing an articulate thought. I think it sends a message. It does break into the computer and says, things are changing. Yeah, paying attention. I think we said in here at some point that the key to everything is paying attention. Awareness of awareness, the Buddhists call it. But your point is very good. If you truly have awareness of awareness, the best place to manifest that is in, I guess the Buddhists call it, right speech, yes? So that it's always appropriate and sufficient and so forth. There's a book that some of you may know and you might be interested if you don't know it. It's called Hallucinogens and Shamanism. It's edited by Michael Harner, but it has articles by a number of people. It has really one of the most wonderful articles ever written about the mushrooms by Henry Munn called The Mushrooms of Language. He talks about how they are an inspiration to articulation. How even in these Mazatec villages when people are not taking mushrooms, the way you can tell a shaman is by a speech style. And I saw this in the Amazon with the ayahuasqueros. They have a diction, a psychedelic diction, that is careful, appropriate, always sensitive to the context of the listener, and so forth and so on. In other words, they are great teachers, educators, communicators. And I think it's the residual effect of this empowerment of speech. Pardon me? What was the name of the book? Hallucinogens and Shamanism by Michael Harner. It's in paperback from Oxford University Press. No, it's not in the book. It's an excellent anthology. It has articles about ayahuasca, about ibogaine, San Pedro. It's a good world survey of folk usage of hallucinogenic plants and extensive bibliographies that will lead you on if you're interested in some particular area. How long does your five grand trip last normally? If I take it around 8.30 at night, by midnight I'm ready to call it an evening. I always eat before I sleep because otherwise you'll wake up in the morning feeling really wasted and sort of hollow. But if you'll eat something fairly substantial right before you sleep at one in the morning, then you wake up the next morning. You feel great. Any difficulty getting to sleep? Oh, well, your mind is just roiling with thoughts. But on the other hand, you've come so far down from where you were an hour, an hour and a half before. That's when you smoke the third bomb and that usually shoves you into unconsciousness. One of the things, there have been many revolutions in geology and paleontology such as plate tectonics and the original discovery of deep time. I mean, 150 years ago you could consider yourself an intellectual and believe that the earth was 5,000 years old. The discovery of deep time made a real difference The discovery of deep time made a real difference. Then plate tectonics created a whole new vision. Well, now the latest wrinkle is the growing awareness that repeatedly in the life of the earth objects have come down that have just raised holy hell. I mean, this thing that came down 65 million years ago, you can't even conceive. The 1904 Siberian? The Tunguska explosion, but that was a very small object. This thing which came down 65 million years ago, they estimate that a wall of earth three miles high moved out at three times the speed of sound from the impacts. Can you imagine a mile high wall of stone moving at twice the speed of sound? I mean, it's the kind of thing that tears planets to pieces. And it's happened before. It happened 220 million years ago. And then when you get back, way back, there's a scar on the Canadian shield that's 750 miles across. It's as large as Copernicus on the surface of the moon. 50,000 years ago, something fell in Arizona that created a crater half a mile wide. They estimate that everything within 800 miles of the epicenter died instantly. And that was only 50,000 years ago. So, the earth is a chaotic place. It's all very provisional. Where did you get that information? What you just described? Describing the explosion? The explosions at 50,000? You mean all the dates and all that? You subscribe to some... My secret sources? As well as the glaciation. I mean, you're talking about times that I've never read any of this in any books anywhere that I've seen. Well, I've discovered that there's a hierarchy of information in the United States and that you get it from journals. It's all in journals. I subscribe to science news, to astronomy, to archaeology, to Scientific American. And those are just the science... And then I get all the other stuff, too, as well. No, science is in total crisis. Cosmology. I mean, did you know that they are seeing structure in the universe on scales so large that no laws of physics can account for? I mean, the galaxies are arranged like trees in an apple orchard out to recessional distances three quarters the life of the universe. There's obviously a great deal that we don't know. Did you know that Alpha Centauri, which is 4.5 light years away, is the most sun-like star in 50 light years? Nice coincidence, isn't it? That the nearest star to the Earth is the most Earth-like star for quite, quite a distance. It is a binary, but it's loosely bound. There could be a stable planetary system there. Yeah. Yeah, I've been coming here since 1974, which is the first one that is about the meaning of life. And then also, all my workshops... All my workshops, I've been, like, concerned with my own growth and enjoying my life and expressing my feelings. And this workshop, I really have not got into my heart or anything, but it's really interesting. I'm aware I've kind of been lopsided in the other direction. So this has kind of been a big influence on me. It's really got my curiosity going. And then also, I'm aware that I don't want to go to Harvard. I want to go to the University of Ayahuasca. I have two questions. One, how do you apply... Better yet, how do I get some Ayahuasca to partake of? And the second question is, I've taken ecstasy a number of times, and it's been wonderful. What's bad about ecstasy for the body as a whole and so forth? I don't know much about it, and I would like to know... Well, there's a lot of... Ecstasy, you all know, is MDMA. There's a lot of... Which is what? MDMA. Is it kind of the speed, or what? Well, it was made out... It's in the same family as MDA. It's a kind of cyclosized amphetamine, but it was used very successfully in directed psychotherapy to get people to talk about their feelings and that sort of thing. And then there was sort of a scare about it because it became known that you could physically see neural damage in the brains of rats that had taken it. But then it was discovered that a drug called fenfluramine, which is a diet drug that has existed for 25 years and is freely pursued...
 prescribed by physicians causes exactly the same kind of signature of neuro damage as the MDMA. Well, fenfluramine, nobody's ever suggested it should be banned. So the decision has been made to just keep looking at this. There's no doubt that it shows gross structural deformation of synaptic tissue, but on the other hand, no behavioral sequelae have been demonstrated for this. In other words, the rat doesn't stagger or isn't aggressive or anything, but it has this. So my advice on MDMA would be basically to go slow and wait. They are working on it. This is my brother's, well he's left Stanford now, but this is what he was doing at Steve Perutka's lab. Hi. Last fall when I was here, I had the opportunity to watch some of the videotapes of your residence last year and that excited me a lot, so I did some inquiring and found a person who would guide me through a McKenna-style mushroom experience. And I did that once. It was the first time in my life I'd ever done anything like that. And it was a major experience for me and I'm curious now and frightened by that experience, my recollection of that experience. And I suspect that's part of the reason why I'm back this weekend, is because it's coming up for me again. And I guess if I have a question, it's sort of along the lines of, do you suspect that because of whatever the control issues or my anxiety going into it, that that gave that particular experience a specific flavor which is not likely to be duplicated again? Well, not exactly, but it is true and it's reassuring, I hope, to you to know this, that the first, it's like sex. The first time can be anything and no judgments can be made based on the first time, because you're just figuring it out. Also, repeated studies have shown that the first time there is personal material, usually, that has to be released, that we do carry traumatic and repressed material. And the first trip and the second trip sometimes is about working through this, but eventually you get to this part of the trip which isn't about you. And most of us are not very screwed up. I mean, you just blow your tubes out and then you're all right and it's okay from then on. There's no way of getting around it that the first timer has an advantage on everybody else because they don't know what they're getting into. It makes me very anxious to do it. And I say in my talks, if it doesn't make you anxious to do it, increase the dose until it does, because it's the ego that needs to be dissolved. It's no good to go through an ambiguous trip. You really want to get it to happen. But for men especially, and certainly for me, it's a surrender issue. You just think, oh God, to submit to it again, to have it totally take me out of control, to have it be totally in charge. And then you just have to take the plunge. And I always... Leo used to have a prayer, which I can't do the prayer, but I got the idea. And the basic idea is, here I am, I trusted you enough to do this, please don't hurt me. I mean, you have to humble yourself. I mean, I know people who are very... Well, I'm thinking of a certain person who's a very strong masculine ego type, pushy, talks too loud, has made a lot of money, is used to being taken seriously. And God, when this guy took mushrooms, he absolutely hated it. And because it told him, it said, you know, you're a jerk and I'm going to make you feel it. And he hated it. And he was telling me the story as though I should say to him, lucky for you, you escaped from the claws of this vicious mushroom. And I was, of course, thinking to myself, my God, it's exactly what this guy needed to hear. It's amazing. But the surrender thing is an issue and it doesn't get easier, I think. And I've talked to shamans in the Amazon about this. And they say, you think this stuff is easy for us to do? You think just because I run around with a penis sheath on my ding-dong that this is any less weird for me than for you? It isn't. It isn't. Because if you're a human being, this is a tough swallow. And yet we do it because we need to cure and we need to understand. But you must be strong. You must have your weapons, whatever your weapons are, your inner fortitude, your chi, your sense sac, all of this. So it's a call to courage. This is why I think that gurus do such a brisk business, even among people who know about psychedelics. Because this takes courage. How many people ever walked to the meditation hall with their knees knocking in fear over what was going to happen in their meditation? But, you know, this is the thing. Oh, you have? Oh, shit, I've got to sit down with my mind again. But that was after psychedelics. The stakes are the same. This is very useful, I imagine. Yeah, this is good stuff. Well, you know, I came to this workshop on Friday and I said that the old vision wells were completely dry and I feel like I've come to the well and I'm really refreshed. And the Buddha of the new century would be a psychedelic guru. And yet, I realized, I've grown up in India. And I realized, you know, I was heavy into hash and opium and things like that and doing a lot of experimentation with that stuff. And I realized this weekend, I came to the West because I wanted to partake of the psychoactive juices, you know. It's been nine years and I've sort of skirted around it, you know. It's like, oh, yeah, I dropped some acid and some mescaline and, you know, a purity button here and there. But it's never been, you know, the way you described it. Full on. Yeah, full blown. And the conflict I have is along the realms of, you know, psychedelic experiences leading to a fully cerebral virtual reality kind of situation and that makes the body obsolete. And the fact that, you know, more recently I've been focusing on, in my meditations and yogas and stuff on, you know, the brain, studying the brain and, you know, boy, how do I get there. And I have this intuition that I need to be put into a situation of danger, just like you were talking a couple of minutes ago, of being, you know, faced with the stark whatever it is. And sort of like just coolly, casually hoping to stumble onto it is not the goods. So it's the conflict of, you know, where does the body come into this. This is this choice that I talked about, about, you know, we can't be both high tech and nature children. Are we going to download half of us into a black box that will be kept on the moon? This kind of thing. Is the body becoming obsolete? Does living in the imagination mean the obsolescence of the body? And how much of what we are is in the body? I mean, we know that theories have ranged from all to none, but it would be a good idea to get this a little nailed down before we go much further with this. You know that mushrooms are forbidden to Brahmins by the Mahabharata, but the Santali people have hundreds of words for mushrooms in their language and a complete, there's some suggestion that they may have connections back to rituals and traditions that are pretty much unchanged from Vedic times. And they have a mushroom that they're very big on. It isn't a psychoactive mushroom, but they venerate it and they hold a festival for it and nobody knows quite why. And I've always been interested in going to India.
 looking into this, because the question of soma in India relates very much to the presence or absence of the straferia cubensis. Can you describe it all your own, settling it in, or how is this progressing? What's the ongoing learning, or seeing, or whatever? How do you want to put this into words, with the continuation of this study? Well, it's interesting to me that the ayahuasca has begun to appear from many sources. It's not just one group, there are several groups who are bringing ayahuasca to this country and holding sessions with it. For some reason, the Amazon is becoming the focus of both our problems and our potential solutions to our problems. The Amazon is where all the cocaine is coming from. The Amazon is where the ayahuasca is coming from. And the Amazon is the place where the issue of the clearing of the rainforest and the destruction of the vegetation cover is most intense. So it's almost as though the rainforest itself is sending the ayahuasca. And the message of the ayahuasca is different from the mushrooms. The mushrooms have this science fiction, let's depart for the stars kind of thing. And the ayahuasca has its feet in the mud and says, you know, life, children, balance, affirmation. So I don't know if this addresses your question. I'm amazed at what's happening to me and to this issue. The mushroom said many years ago, just keep saying what you're saying and I will clear the way. And it seems to be clearing the way and I just keep saying what I'm saying. But what this is all for, you know, I haven't gotten any new orders for a while. I assume that it's a struggle for the soul of this species and then maybe everything is tied up in that. But these chemicals, these plant hallucinogens are pheromones laden with messages for humanity. But you have to pick up the telephone, you know. It's telling us how to do it. And I don't mean some airy fairy trip like love one another. I mean it's supplying technical data on how to manage ourselves out of this mess with things like the time wave. And, you know, I don't want to name names because they prefer their privacy. But I know of a number of major ideas moving around on the intellectual landscape whose inventors entirely credit them to psychedelics. These ideas are there because the planetary soul is seeding them. And it's up to us to cultivate, cultivate our intuition, our social relationships, our sensitivity and our sense of decency, you know, so that nobody puts anything over on us. And I think the world is growing more psychedelic every day. I'm completely hopeful. The trends I look for, the indicators I watch are all moving in the right direction. This is how it should be. This is what it's like when a species prepares to depart for hyperspace. Nothing's wrong.

Terence McKenna - A Survey Of Shamanic Options - June 1989

I'm sure you're all aware of the situation of peril in which the Amazon rainforest finds itself and very large conservation organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund and and that sort of organization are working very hard to preserve large tracts of the Amazon in situ and to essentially make large parks and this is commendable and should certainly be done but what is not being done is an effort to preserve human information about the rainforest. In other words, no effort is being made to conserve the heritage of the people who have lived in and adjacent to the rainforest over millennia and my estimate would be that this information which is extremely fragile will be lost by sometime after the turn of the century. It's not hard to understand why this is happening. It's a consequence of the impact of market economies on primitive, so-called primitive, pre-literate tribal people in the third world. In the case of the Amazon, the men are leaving the remote villages and going to work in sawmills and going to work as outboard motor captains and mechanics and the kind of transformation that always accompanies urbanization and the arrival of a money economy is taking place. Yet, these people have a body of medical data that has served them very well over thousands of years and now, because they are impressed with the values of Western medicine and can buy all kinds of remedios at any drugstore in the city, the importance of this knowledge is no longer apparent to them and so it's being lost. I might just digress for a minute on that subject because I have a passionate feeling about it. I have no reason to doubt the DEA statistics which say that 70% of the cocaine produced in South America is coming out of the Rio Huayga basin. I know nothing about it. As a botanist, I can tell you that the Rio Huayga is the richest, floristically, the area richest in plant species in the entire Amazon basin. As near as we can tell looking at the geohistory of the basin, at times it's been considerably drier and during glaciations when water is concentrated at the poles, the wet, the high rainfall areas of the Amazon diminish in size. The Rio Huayga is one of those areas that is always wet and it has consequently produced a fantastic speciation of plants. One biogeographer, geologist, estimates that the Amazon basin has been above water continuously for 220 million years. This is as long as most places in the world, longer than most places. It's estimated that the Madagascan plate, which is a relic plate that now comprises Seychelles, Mauritius and the Malagasy Republic, has been above water. This is all, we're talking Eastern Africa, Indian Ocean here. That land has been above water 350 million years and is the oldest above water sites on the planet. But the Amazon basin, by virtue of heavy rainfall, continuous lack of inundation and being tropical, has been like a laboratory for speciation, both of animals and plants, so that the Rio Huayga, which is the concentrated center of this process, is like the most intense concentration of variegated species and genetic material on the planet. Well, it should be made into a vast natural park. If that can't be done, then it should be left alone. What the American government has decided is a better course is that it should be defoliated, that a chemical called spike should be aerosol sprayed into the air over this valley in order to kill coca bushes. Well, I don't know who dreams this stuff up, but any one of you on the ground for 20 minutes in this scene would be convinced that nothing could be stupider, that this is essentially like burning down the forest to kill the ants, that coca, there may be a lot of it there. I don't know, but there's a lot of a lot of other stuff there for sure. There are hundreds of distinct tribes, dozens of language groups, tens of thousands of unique species of plants and animals. It is floristically, faunistically one of the five or six richest areas on the whole planet. And as if the inroads of capitalism and the inroads of Maoist politics and the inroads of capitalism were not enough, you're also going to get a bunch of clowns from the DEA who want to defoliate it. So, you know, if any of you have political pull or the letter writing type, you might put some pressure on anyone you know to halt this. This is really a kind of ecocidal atrocity. And if something isn't done like all the other ecocidal atrocities, it'll be history before most people are even informed of what is going on. I mean, this is really one of the great, great policy wrong turnings for many, many reasons. I mean, I don't expect the State Department to be sympathetic to endangered plants. But what is happening is all of Peru is being pushed into the arms of Sindaro Luminoso, which is one of the most peculiar and radical political philosophies on the earth today. I mean, it rivals Pol Pot for having a no-holds-barred approach to dealing with its enemies. And Peru daily is being pushed into the arms of this extremely radical faction by a combination of mismanaged Peruvian economic policies and mismanaged American policies toward the campesinos, toward the poor people who grow the coca, because they are seeing Sindaro as their only protector, their only hope. So it's a repeat performance of a sad story that has been seen in many parts of the world. Well, that's enough political polemics. What I thought I would do today is just briefly survey the world and look at the shamanic options in the plant area, trying to see just what is available, what are the history, chemistry, pharmacology, and botany of the relevant species. So I'll go through this. It's in the way of a survey. It's not a rhetorical flight of fancy unless we lose control. Well, I've talked a lot about Africa in these meetings, talking about the emergence of culture and my belief that it was catalyzed into existence, language, and complex neural processing by exposure to psilocybin mushrooms in the veldt situation of ancient Africa. So I think I've said enough about that. What I would talk about today regarding Africa is the existing cults or patterns of hallucinogenic or shamanic plant usage in Africa. Africa is a special case because it is, of all the continents, the continent most heavily impacted by human presence because, of course, human beings evolved in Africa. Fire was discovered and used in Africa before it was used anywhere else. And also, the ecosystems of Africa had a particular fragility in relationship to the dryness that comes and goes with glaciation.
 So, in spite of the fact that I propose Africa as the cradle of human emergence under the influence of psychedelic plant synergies, today Africa is noticeably poor in hallucinogenic plants. The most interesting hallucinogen in the African situation is Tabernanthe iboga. Tabernanthe iboga is a tree in the Rubiaceae, or a small bush, depending on edaphic factors. That means soil factors can cause it to grow different ways. Tabernanthe iboga contains the alkaloid ibogaine. Ibogaine, there's a paradox about ibogaine, which is, of all the indole hallucinogens, it was the one most earliest to come to the attention of Western researchers. In the 1870s and 80s, when Belgium was in control of the Congo and exporting huge amounts of ivory and gold out of Africa, entrepreneurs seized upon this plant, Tabernanthe iboga, and created tonics that were compounded with it as the main ingredient. And it was sold as a tonic and an aphrodisiac, and in some cases it was understood to be an intoxicant. Much in the way that Vini di Mariani, the famous coca preparation, which was the rage in the 1880s in Europe, much in the same way that it was marketed, iboga tonics were marketed in the late 19th century. But the alkaloid was never very thoroughly studied after the turn of the century. And of all the indoles, we know less about this one. It has a complex molecular structure, placing it closer in structural affinity to LSD than to any other psychoactive indole. It is... Yeah? Indoles are a class of hallucinogens that are based on a molecular structure that involves, a benzene group, which is a six-sided structure, attached to a, what's called a pentaxyl group, a five-sided structure. The six and the five. And then built off on them, there may be another six, that gives you the beta-carbolene family. There may be just a side chain, that gives you the tryptamine family. Or there may be more complex stereochemical attachments, and they give you the LSD-ibogaine type structure. So indole refers to a small family of psychoactive compounds. Not necessarily all psychoactive compounds. Not opiates, not tropanes, which are the things in detoura, not the polyhydric alcohols of cannabis, tetrahydrocannabinol. But this particular small group of plants united by this chemical structure, that seems to, because of its affinities to serotonin, be the chemical structure that lays the basis for the most psychoactive of the hallucinogens. Iboga is used by the Fang people, most notably in Gabon and around the capital city in Ghana and in Nigeria and in Zaire. And it has an interesting and suggestive usage. First, let's deal with this question of aphrodisiac. As you know, an aphrodisiac is a chemical substance thought to make one either capable of or susceptible to sexual activity. And over thousands of years, this has been a recurring theme of fascination for human beings, for obvious reasons. And the definition takes on different nuances in the hands of different people. Probably the best known so-called aphrodisiac among ordinary folks is the so-called Spanish fly, which is cantheridine. The beetle, the carapaces of a small desert beetle can be ground down to yield cantheridine. And if you give someone cantheridine in a carefully calculated dose, well, they have a generalized reaction to it where they can gain relief from this reaction by having sex. But it is not a true aphrodisiac. It's more like a almost genital itching or something. It's a strongly localized in the erogenous zone kind of itching. And so this is like a pseudo-aphrodisiac. All CNS stimulants, all central nervous system stimulants in low doses present themselves as what's called arousal. I mentioned this yesterday, attention to incoming detail, slightly elevated blood pressure, so forth and so on. This is a precondition for sexual activity, but it is not a true aphrodisiac. In fact, when you sort through the many candidates for aphrodisiacs, and I'm sure as you know they range from powdered rhinoceros horn to mangoes to oysters to what have you, interestingly enough, ibogaine is the only thing which actually seems to pass the test. Ibogaine is an aphrodisiac in the truest sense of the word, and I take that to mean this, that if you are interested in sexual activity, it promotes, facilitates, and enhances it. If you are not, it doesn't. It is not, you know, it doesn't overwhelm the intentions of the user. It seems to be one pathway that the psychic energy that it releases can be shunted down, but that there are others. And paradoxically, the way it's used in the fang society is it's a major force holding couples together. The fang society is quite complex, and it's structured in such a way that there is a built-in high anxiety factor about women among men. The reason for this is an unusual set of customs which we don't really find duplicated anywhere else in the world, and it goes like this. A man may have more than one wife. A wife is always accompanied by a dowry. The dowry is always quite large in the sense that it is always a strain on the girl's family to get the dowry together. And when a woman marries, naturally, she and her dowry go to the village of her husband. But what is a little unusual in this situation is that divorce is very easy for the woman to obtain, number one. And number two, if a woman leaves her husband, the dowry must be returned. So men are in a constant dither about hanging on to women because the dowry must be returned even if it has been spent. And these are family relationships. These aren't relationships between a man and a girl's parents. These are relationships between two filial structures. So it can become quite complicated. And in fact, fang men between the ages of 25 and 45 spend enormous amounts of their lives making journeys to the villages of their wives or former wives to negotiate dowry return because the concept of used goods is recognized. And so it isn't simply that the guy has to pay back the dowry. It's that he has to meet with the girl's family and argue with them about how much she was really worth. And this often ends in bloodshed. So into this social structure that is pre-structured for anxiety about women.
 comes this psychedelic aphrodisiac that promotes not only pair bonding, but community bonding. And in fact, it does so. And often when people are, the cult of iboga is not the generalized cult of the fang. They have many cults and do, and some are Baptists and Mormons and, but when a couple gets into trouble, the old men of the village, the shamans, will often say to them, why don't you join Bawiti, this cult? You're having marital problems. Why don't you join Bawiti? And perhaps you can avoid having to pay back your dowry. Perhaps your wife will reconsider and decide to stay with you. So it has actually become a very interesting force for social cohesion. And in fact, studies, sociological studies, have shown that members of the Bawiti cult have a divorce rate far below that of general fang society. So I spend so much time on this because this is an unusual role for a hallucinogen. We just don't see them playing these secondary socially catalytic roles. Iboga is a strong hallucinogen, and it's usually given to a person in very massive doses at the initiatory exposure, which can come in late adolescence. People do die occasionally from it, but the amounts eaten are just almost beyond credibility, or creditability, because they talk in terms of tablespoons, and people will go to the river and eat two tablespoons. Methods of preparing haoma and soma, which are very puzzling when you try to apply them to a mushroom, because there's all this talk about it's squeezed, it's filtered. A bunch of processes are described, which if you tried to carry them out on a mushroom would just leave you with a mess. But if you carry these processes out on pergamum and harmala, it quite reliably produces a yellow fluid, rich in harmaline. Harmaline is yellow. That is probably an intoxicant. So this is an area where research needs to be done. Any of you who are interested in ayahuasca or interested in beta-carbolines in psychotherapy, I urge you to look at Flattery's book. It's brand new, 1989, University of California Press, Near Eastern Studies, publication number 21, Haoma and Harmaline. Okay, moving on east then across the Iranian plateau into India, which is certainly the birthplace or a great cradle of esoteric spirituality, what we discover is a surprising poverty of true, i.e. indole, hallucinogens. There are interesting substitutes, aside from pergamum and harmala, which I've mentioned, of which there is very little textual evidence for use in India. The two things which have to stand out in Indian psycho-phyto-shamanism would be, number one, detourist species. We might as well talk about them now because we will meet them on every continent and they're including in Africa. I just read an article about a group in Tanzania, interesting group, detoura fatuosa, taken by women only in a women's initiation rite, which I don't know how often this goes on, but it involves a labial measuring rite, so everybody compares the size of their labia, the height of this trip, and what is culturally sanctioned, and this is a funny concept which I'll talk about a little bit, is blue hallucinations. The women strive for blue hallucinations and if they don't achieve them, it's considered like it wasn't really a successful initiation. The anthropologist who wrote on this called this a culturally sanctioned hallucination. Well, now, I'm not sure what is meant here. Do they mean that anthropologists, white people, don't have blue hallucinations? They just have hallucinations and that somehow it's expectation that directs this? I'm not sure. I don't associate blue hallucinations with tropanes, but it is certainly true that blue hallucinations attach themselves to ayahuasca and people have even called it the search for the blue flash. If you've ever taken ayahuasca, you know that there is a moment when what appears to be the world's entire supply of magenta jello is unleashed upon you and just flows toward you, past you, and through you and it invariably is this electric cerulean blue merging into magenta, a very typical presentation of that. Okay, well, detoura species, many types, occur throughout the world in the tropical and the temperate zone. There are several species in India and texts on yoga and on Indian spirituality never stress this. Use of detoura is quite strongly a part of religious, of Indian, well, sadhu type spirituality. It's too much for ordinary people, but you do see when you hang out with sadhus, the little prickly pods of detoura are as common to find cast around about their dwelling places and gathering areas as are the evidences of charas smoking. And that brings me to the second major component of the psychoactive flora of the subcontinent, which is cannabis. Cannabis is not an indole, but cannabis must be considered a psychoactive plant of great age and human association. I mean, cannabis is hemp. Cannabis is the source of fiber for weaving and we find hemp and fibers in graves 8,000 to 9,000 years old at Catalhoyuk for one place, a place I've talked a lot to you about. It's fascinating the way in which the metaphors of the weaver are the metaphors for human cognitive activity generally. In the 50s, a famous book was published called Man is a Weaver that pursued this theme but never made the connection to fibrous hemp. But we weave a tail, we tell a yarn, we have all these words, these fiber and weaving words that we connect to poetic or narrative activity. And most of us who are aficionados of cannabis in these latter days smoke it and don't smoke charas, hashish, because it's rare in this country, but smoke bud, flowering tops of marijuana. But if you actually eat hashish it, you can convince yourself this was the LSD of the ancient world in the 19th century. You know Theodore Gautier and Baudelaire and Verlaine, Rimbaud, that crowd. There was this thing called the Society of the Hashashin in Paris and they met at the old Hotel de Paris on the left bank and ate jellied cannabis that they were getting from Morocco with little silver spoons. And the descriptions of these experiences make it clear that this was operating. They're not more florid or less florid than the descriptions of LSD that we get from Aldous Huxley and Tim Leary in the early 1960s. I mean this stuff was taking them away. I don't advise you to eat hashish or charas for a very practical reason, which is it's collected off people's hands and your immune system is just electrified by the presence of all of this material that's been rubbed off of your hands. I suppose we could put it through an x-ray machine and then we could eat it with impunity.
 But we can't sell short the spiritual power of cannabis, especially when eaten. Some of you may know this book, The Oracles and Demons of Tibet, by Ren Dynabisky Wojtkiewicz. Wojtkiewicz studied shamanism, was not interested in Tibetan Buddhism, but was interested in the pre-Buddhist strata. And in that book there are pictures of Pungpo shamans intoxicated on hashish, experiencing actually fits and near convulsions in an oracular trance in a village near Mustang. So it is not a minor psychedelic substance at all, it's a very powerful psychedelic substance, especially when eaten and when concentrated and then eaten. Opium is an Asian plant, but I'm not going to talk about it in the context of psychedelics. I think you know enough about opium and its history. What I will point out is the absence, the surprising absence of hallucinogens in the old world tropics. By the old world tropics, we mean the Indonesian tropics. This is an area that I'm very well familiar with from having spent a lot of time out there as a professional insect collector in my pre-botany days, and there just are no major hallucinogenic plants in the Indonesian or Philippine or Southeast Asian tropics. There are certain suspect plants, but none of them do we encounter a living cult that would be a clue to this thing as a major item of human spiritual or cultural usage. Yeah, Marty. What are the magic mushrooms we hear about from Indonesia now that are available there supposedly openly now in omelets? When I was in Bali, this practice was absolutely unknown, the famous omelets of Denpasar and Kuta Beach and all that. I think that until somebody argues differently, the most reasonable thing to assume is that coprophytic mushrooms, meaning dung-loving mushrooms, have just followed cattle around and around the world in the warm tropics. Now the mushroom that is most commonly offered to tourists in Bali is not Stropharycubensis. It's a Copelandia, and it's a weaker mushroom. There are a number of these dung-loving mushrooms that contain psilocybin, but almost all of them also contain an emetic, usually, well, no, I don't want to say that. They just usually contain an emetic, means makes you throw up. The Hawaiian mushrooms that people rave about are actually, from the point of view of someone who knows psilocybin mushrooms, a very inferior choice. If you go to Thailand, if you go to Koh Samui in the islands of the south, you will be offered mushrooms, and I quickly understood that there was, to a certain degree, a shell game going on, and what it is is this. The people selling the mushrooms have learned from the school of hard knocks that it's a bad idea to wire up naive Westerners with massive amounts of hallucinogenic drugs, because then you get in trouble with the local constable and so forth. So unless you are on it in southern Thailand, what they will sell you are mushrooms that have grown in the dung of water buffalo, and right there in the next field over, there is the dung of Cebu cattle, and that has Stropharycubensis in it. But they try to steer you away from that, because it's so much stronger. They just want people to get a buzz on. So if you're buying mushrooms in southern Thailand, try to see, try to go with the guy and collect them, and see where they're coming from. Now there's an easy test to tell these Paniolus and Coplandia species from Stropharia. They will do what is called autodigest. Some mushrooms do this and some don't. That means if you pick the mushroom and lay it in the sun on a stone, if you come back in an hour or two and it's turned to slime, it was not Stropharycubensis. It was a Coplandia or a Paniolus. They literally dissolve themselves at death, and this is not a quality of Stropharia. There's been a lot of wondering about this thing, about why are there no hallucinogenic plants in the old world tropics, when in the new world tropics, the Amazon basin, it is the most concentrated ecosystem for hallucinogenic plants. Well, the thinking is the tropics are the tropics. Who can imagine a set of evolutionary factors that would favor the evolution of many species of hallucinogens in one hemisphere, but not in the other hemisphere? It's very hard to picture a mechanism, a Darwinian or Neo-Darwinian mechanism that would give you that result. Different suggestions have been made. One is that actually there are as many hallucinogens in Indonesia as in South America, but because the Dutch have been there for 450 years, the level of indigenous culture, the primitiveness so-called of indigenous culture has been mucked with, and consequently the people have forgotten these things. Well, that's a good theory, but when a botanist who is not an ethnographer goes over the species lists and looks at the suspect families of plants, you also don't find hallucinogens. You see, certain families of plants are highly suspect for hallucinogens. For instance, the leguminosii. This is the family of flowering trees with finely divided leaves. This is a typical leguminous tree, this locust-like thing here, and they occur all over the world as trees and bushes. This is a family that always has a very exotic chemistry. Not hallucinogens per se, but flavonoids, saponins, terpenes, susquiterpenes, all kinds of exotic tertiary byproducts. A mimosa is a typical example. Another family that is always suspect that you look at first is the rubiaceae. We know this as the family that contains tea, and of course caffeine is an alkaloid that is sequestered in the bean of this plant in surprising concentrations. But some of the rubiaceae contain DMT and other psychoactive compounds. Another family that is always one of the first ones you check out are the euphorbs, the euphorbiaceae. These are the fleshy old world succulents that bleed latex when cut. They often have extremely poisonous or sometimes psychedelic principles in them. Okay, so much then for the old world. As you know, when there is ice at the poles, there are land bridges between Siberia and Alaska, and this is the route that most anthropologists believe the major migrations into the new world took. Well now an interesting consequence of this northern migration route to the new world, people didn't just set out on a trip from Manchuria to San Diego. This happened over centuries, millennia, that people would move a few miles and then have children and die. And so what it means is that cultures crossing into the new world had to go through a cold neck, the neck of cold land, a floristically extremely restricted environment represented by the Arctic tundra. And we can imagine that this would have stripped away many traditions of plant usage as they moved north out of the areas where these plants occurred. So while the role of cannabis is not clear, but for instance, no opium was carried to the new world by these ancient peoples. And in fact, very few plants at all.
 all, cannabis is the one slightly puzzling exception. It may be that cannabis was carried to the new world by people crossing the Siberian land bridge. Cannabis does grow in Alaska under special conditions in short growing seasons, and it's possible that this happened. The closeness between cannabis sativa, the Mexican marijuana plant, and by closeness I mean the botanical closeness, to cannabis ruderales, the weed hemp of Central Asia, indicates that probably these things were separated not too long ago. What has happened with cannabis speciation in Asia, you see, is that obviously even without the narcotic dimension to the cannabis plant, we can see that very early on there was pressure on it, selective pressure by human beings to produce good fiber stock. So what you get in India is a division into fiber tribes and drug tribes in cannabis. And the resin tribes are, you know, extremely selected, heavily selected for the production of resin, and they are the source of the narcotic charas. Amanita muscaria, the hypothesized mushroom soma in Wasson's view, and for sure a hallucinogen of use in Siberia among the Ostiaks, Koryaks, Kamchatka tribes, and Yakuts, this whole group of people, and by a coincidence of scholarship you know when scholars study a worldwide phenomenon of any sort, they like to have a baseline area to compare everything else to. This is why, for instance, the volcanoes of Hawaii are the volcanoes of this planet. All other volcanoes are compared to them. They are the baseline volcanoes. And the Hawaiian words for various lava types and this sort of thing have been adopted by volcanologists worldwide. So all rough lava is called pahoehoe. All smooth lava is called, I mean, is called ah-ah. All smooth lava is called pahoehoe because these Hawaiian terms have been adapted. Well, a similar thing went on in the study of shamanism. Mersiliad and other people were looking for what they felt was the pure, the original, the real shamanism, and they focused on Siberia. Now we see, for reasons apparently quite arbitrary, like mainly that they had a lot of ethnographic data on Siberia, there's no reason to hold the Hopi medicine man, the Amazonian Iowa scarrow, and the Solomon Island kapu man up to comparison to a Siberian standard. But nevertheless, the literature preserves this, and so then the model or paradigmatic intoxicant of the paradigmatic shaman was Amanita muscaria. There are a lot of problems with this. Amanita muscaria is not a reliable intoxicant. It is subject to geographic variation, seasonal variation, genetic variation. There are toxins present in it that are also subject to variation. You can end up with an NDE rather than a hallucinogenic experience if you just miss the mark slightly with this one. Nevertheless, it is circum-arctic in its distribution. It occurs in Denmark, across the northern reaches of the Soviet Union, into Alaska, and into Canada. And it's generalized in that range. As you move south, it retreats to higher and higher altitudes, with certain exceptions. For instance, in California, it can be found at sea level in some ecosystems. Some of you may know Baker's Beach. That's a beach that lies outside the Golden Gate Bridge in this very ritzy district of old mansions. Well, go, on a rainy January day, down to Baker's Beach, and there are a lot of birch trees and these kind of trees planted in old sea sand. And my God, this is an Amanita ecosystem that you will not believe. I have seen not only Amanita muscaria by the bushel, and Amanita pantherina, but rare, rare Amanitas. The chocolate brown one, Porphyria, rumored to contain beta-carbolines. And Rugosa, and the deadly one, Varusa, the one they called the destroying angel. All of these Amanitas can be seen within a half-mile walk of each other. Specimens the size of dinner plates. So what this means, you see, is that people then moving south through British Columbia and on into the Great Plains and western coast of North America, had been shorn of their phyto-shamanic knowledge, because they had just come through centuries and centuries of migration through hallucinogen-poor environments. And to my mind, this explains the curious absence of major hallucinogens in North American Indian spirituality. North American Indian spirituality relies largely on ordeals, the Sundance ordeal, and this sort of thing. There are minor psychoactives, such as a chorus calamus, sweet flag root. But really, North American Indian shamanism is not a shamanism of hallucinogenic ecstasy. The use of peyote, which might be offered as the counterexample, it's astonishingly difficult to document the use of peyote before just a few hundred years ago. I mean, we like to think, you know, that people have been taking peyote in the New World for millennia. But in fact, it seems to be something that came up out of Mexico, where the Tarahumara may have had it in a very localized culture complex. But with the Indians in the Western United States getting the shit kicked out of them by the U.S. Army, there was pressure for revitalization. And any of you who are anthropologists understand how this works. You put pressure on a people, they will launch revitalization movements. The ghost dance religion of the Sioux and Algonquin and Plains people was largely a revitalization movement based on peyote. What appears to have been going on in the temperate Mesoamerican zone anciently was the use of Sephora secundifolia. And Sephora secundifolia is a highly poisonous plant. It is what anthropologists call an ordeal poison, not a hallucinogen. Now, ordeal poisons are a rougher way to end up at the same place. The place on Earth, for unknown reasons, or reasons not known to me anyway, where ordeal poisons have been perfected is on the island of Madagascar, mentioned earlier in this lecture as one of those sites where land has been above water longer than anywhere else on Earth. And on the island of Madagascar, the Malagasy Republic, tribal people have located a number of plants that are extremely temporary poisoners so that you think you're going to die. You beg for death and you don't die. You recover fully in 16, 10, 12 to 16 hours. But you are so, it is so agonizing and you so completely wish for death in this experience that when you finally realize that you're going to live through it, you have the equivalent of a psychedelic experience. I mean, you tears of joy well up, you embrace the Earth, you give thanks to God, and you come clean. But this is a tougher way to do it than most of us might prefer. Sometimes you have psychedelic trips like that where the fact that it is over is such cause for rejoicing that you hardly know who to thank. And apparently, apparently, North American Indian shamanism tended in this direction.
 And only peyote, arriving late, mitigated that. And peyote still partakes of this to some degree. I mean, it is a minor ordeal, especially if you eat enough peyote to trigger truly intense hallucinations. What I've found sitting in peyote circles is most people only take enough to be able to sit in the circle without nodding out. And at low doses, of course, mescaline and amphetamine will wire you up. But it takes a lot to put you into Don Juan country. And it is not an indole. It is a psychoactive amphetamine more closely related to the synthetic psychoactive amphetamines such as MDA and MDMA. But now we're on the brink of moving down into Mesoamerica, onto the Mexican peninsula. And we are approaching this puzzling concentration of psychoactive plants. It begins, basically, you could start your border at the Rio Grande. And it goes south to Argentina. And in that zone, there is a tremendous richness of psychoactive plants of all types in many plant families. I've mentioned peyote. I mentioned detoura in another context. Detoura cults are very big. And detoura has to be viewed as an ordeal poison. It is a hallucinogen, but it's also a kind of deliriant and a kind of frenzy-inducing thing. And it doesn't... It's very hard to take much out of it. You have intense experiences, but the perceiving mind has been somehow interfered with. Nevertheless, in Southern California, Catalina Island, San Diego County, in ancient times, there was what was called the Tlaloc religion of the Luiseno people and people speaking that language group. And this was an adolescent initiation for males that involved being taken into the desert and given large amounts of detoura over days. This would be a completely boundary-dissolving, consciousness-altering experience. As we go deeper into Mexico and leave the deserts behind and begin to approach the mountain range of the Sierra Mazateca and the Central Mexican Highland, we come upon what in some ways, to me, is one of the most interesting hallucinogen and shamanic hallucinogen complexes, which is, of course, the Central Mexican Mushroom Complex discovered by Gordon and Valentina Wasson in the early 50s. Now, these are not mushrooms that grow in the dung of cows or any other animal. These are what mycologists call ephemeral, meaning small and diminutive and briefly present as fruiting bodies. Ephemeral mushrooms that actually live in very restricted ecosystems. One of them lives in the waste from sugar cane, so it can only grow in matted vegetable material. Some of them grow... The one called derumbes, the earthquake mushroom, grows only in disturbed land where there's, like, erosion or shifting. And clearly all of these mushrooms must have speciated from a common ancestor. They're about... Well, it changes all the time, but about 12 varieties all have been utilized. Now, interestingly enough, in terms of fungal speciation, the center of fungal speciation in North America is around Grants Pass, Oregon. There are more mushroom species within 100 miles of Grants Pass, Oregon than almost anywhere on Earth. And there are psilocybin-containing diminutive mushrooms, not coprophytic. But nobody but the most inspired anthropologists have ever been able to find any evidence for use of these hallucinogenic, psilocybin-containing mushrooms in the Kwakiutl, Shimsham, Tlingit complex of peoples. They knew about... Well, no, we don't know that they knew about this. One would assume, because we give Indians a lot of credit, that they knew a lot about their environment. And, of course, we have the evidence of their peculiar artistic style, which is X-ray vision. These are the people who show you the insides of things as well as the outsides. But in terms of usage or a claim of usage, it's never been substantiated. And this brings up an interesting point, because the plants I'm talking to you about today are plants with a history of shamanic usage. But there are hallucinogenic plants without a history of shamanic usage. Plants that looked at pharmacologically look like ideal candidates. Why weren't they used? A good example would be... In the Convolvulaceae, the Morning Glory family, there is a group, Argyria, 13 species of Argyria. They occur naturally from northern India to the Solomon Islands. They are woody Morning Glories. The one that you may know is the Hawaiian Baby Wood Rose. Well, now, the Hawaiian Baby Wood Rose is a very powerful hallucinogen, weight for weight. I mean, it only takes eight seeds of this thing to propel you into a fairly profound visionary state. There are some cardioactive glycosides present, but as we see, these ordeal poisons, that doesn't turn people off in other situations. Argyria is unknown to have a folk usage. And yet, looking at the flora of Earth, this is one of the first things you would think that people might have looked at. Certainly, hippies in the 1960s and people since have made very good use of Argyria as a visionary vehicle. Rupert and I, Rupert Sheldrake and I, have talked a lot about this, about the morphogenetic field of a shamanic plant without a history of shamanic usage and how different that would be, say, to take Argyria nervosa and contrast it with Stropharocubensis or something like that that has a tremendous input from past shamanic usage. Well, here's one that has none. Do you experience this very considerably along with Argyria? With Argyria? Yeah, yeah. Well... Has that been worn out, like, experientially? I don't... I think it... Well, I don't really know. We don't have enough data on Argyria. Nobody has done, you know, the Hawaiian Woodrose book to give us 30 or 40 accounts so we can see. When I took it, I had a quite anomalous experience. It was a standard psychedelic experience, but the visionary episode was entirely, and this was in a room in Berkeley, no pre... you know, no suggestion. And what the contents of the hallucinations were they were entirely based on the motif of the sea urchin. And I was in huge dome rooms that were pale purple with these star-like things and these tit-like protuberances on everything and then this mauve floor and then what looked to me like it was the... it was the pumpkin carriage from Cinderella, but it wasn't a pumpkin. It was a sea urchin vehicle of some sort was being drawn by these bizarre-looking creatures. They were like a cross between camels and giraffes and they too were pale violet and had these tit-like protuberances all over their body that the little knobs, you know, on the sea... I don't know. Nobody had ever said to me that the Hawaiian woodrows had anything to do with the sea urchin motif, but it was pretty inescapable. I would have done more with that, but I didn't like this cardioactive glycoside thing. In practical terms what it meant was in the first wave you just had to sit down and tell yourself that if you were having a heart attack you better get ready because there was nothing you could do about it and it certainly was convincing. I don't know. Maybe there are some medical people in the audience.
 audience, it's always good to have a doctor around because they're so hard to alarm, you know? I mean, I'll be ready to bury somebody and they will say, no. They'll snap out of it in an hour or two. This person is absolutely rigid and unconscious and you're supposed to be calm about it because their pulse tells you it's all right. Well anyway, to say more about Mexico, the coincident with this Sierra Mazatec and cultural area where all these mushrooms are being utilized, there is an overlapping and completely unrelated complex also of great age and richness. And this is the hallucinogenic morning glory group, not the argerias that I've just been talking about, but morning glories in two other families, in the family Ipomoea and in the family Turbina. The Ipomoea is the one you might be most familiar with. This is the heavenly blue morning glory that is the ornamental morning glory and annual and you can buy seeds in any decent seed store of this. It's been hybridized into three varietals and it's amusing that they chose to name the original varietal, which was pure, pure blue. I mean, it is a magical plant. You don't even have to take it. I mean, just to look at this thing and some of you may know George O'Keefe's paintings of these flowers. It's a pure blue flower, pure sky blue. That one is called heavenly blue. Then it was hybridized into a blue and white one, which is called flying saucer. And then it was further hybridized into a pearly white, which is called pearly gates. So heavenly blue, pearly gates and flying saucer. And this is a wonderful hallucinogen. It has everything going for it. You can grow up a bunch of them in a summer, a long summer and the plant really responds to care and water. I've grown them in a single summer, 40 feet up, a double garage wall and just, you know, filled it. And then you let them make seed and you cut down the mass of dried foliage and seed capsules and pound it over a sheet or a piece of plastic. And, you know, you can gather a thing like this full of seed. Well, it takes about 200 seeds to provide an unambiguous psychedelic experience. And one of the, you know, you talk about morphogenetic fields, one of the really fascinating things about the Mexican morning glory seeds is the number of people who report Toltec and Mayan and Aztec imagery. And I have experienced this myself. It's absolutely uncanny. I mean, it's just, it's like being at Teotihuacan at the height of that civilization and the motif of the feathered serpent and the almost all of this stuff is there. Now, I don't know whether this is a suggestion. I mean, other plants, I mean, when I took Iboga, I didn't think that I was in Africa. I didn't see the motifs of the fang. I don't know. This is an interesting area. I don't know how you do research in it. It's not empirical, but it is an interesting area. Why do the plants seem to have their own message? The other Mexican morning glory is Turbina, which is Turbina coriumbosa, formerly Rivia coriumbosa, and it is not an annual. It's a perennial. It's a little bush with small white morning glory-like flowers on it, and it is quite powerful. With the Ipomoea, you have to take 200 to 300 seeds. With the Turbina, the ordinary dose is 13 seeds, and 13 seeds would barely cover the bottom of a teaspoon. So, you know, it's interesting that in the Convolvulaceae, the concentration of the alkaloid is really quite intense. And Turbina, both of these morning glories contain the active constituents are LSD-like compounds. Now, LSD, LSD-25, the classic LSD that we all know, is active in the nanogram range. In other words, 200 gamma of LSD is considered a good dose. These naturally occurring ergonamine and LSD-like compounds have a more ordinary dose spectrum. They are active in the range, even purified, of 10 to 30 milligrams. This is more typical of a drug. The activity of LSD is still a pharmacological miracle. I mean, you understand, do you not, that one gamma is one millionth of a gram, and that one milligram is one one-thousandth of a gram. A milligram, it takes a thousand gamma to make one milligram. So, LSD is active in an unearthly intensity. This is why, you know, a guy could make six million hits in his garage, because the physical mass of it, the physical amount necessary for one human dose, is literally microscopic. So, perhaps the floristic coincidence of the two morning glories and the many mushroom species, and then several minor psychedelics, which I'm not going to talk about today, in this Sierra Mazatecan situation, set the stage for the evolution of such an intensely hallucinogenic style of shamanism. And, of course, those people then, and anthropologists differ as to whether people entered South America by going through the Caribbean islands from the Yucatan and entered in the Suriname area, or whether people came down through the land bridge and across Panama and entered through Colombia. Current thinking is that they came through the Caribbean islands, that this was an easier route. Now, down through those Caribbean islands, what we find is DMT cults using the seeds of leguminous trees. In fact, the major source of the snuff that was found in the snuffs of the Caribbean is a tree that, if you're not a botanist, you couldn't tell it from this. The tree is called Anadenanthra paragrina, and it looks like this in all particulars, except the placement of the inflorescences is very, just a little bit different. It's a matter of detail. In the deserts of northern Chile, in the Atacama Desert, they have a found 4,500-year-old samples of DMT-containing snuffs. If any of you are interested in this, the anthropologist Manuel Torres and his wife have made this their life's work and have published on this, among others, a wonderful book showing the snuff trays of these Atacama people, and they're beautiful, carved in wood, inlaid with shell and bone. They were the major high art that these people produced. Well, whether people entered South America through the Caribbean or in through Colombia, it's very clear that the experiences in Mexico gave them a complete shamanic armamentarium of hallucinogenic substances. So, this is in the Amazon, what they encountered was the most floristically complex environment on the planet. Thinking is that human beings arrived there somewhere between 20 and 30,000 years ago, depending on the faction in anthropology that you align yourself with. What they found there that they had not known before was Banisterra, which is a very, very, very, very, very, very stereopsis copy, this malfagacious, woody vine that can attain up to 200 meters in length, which is approaching 600 feet. I've seen specimens of this thing as thick as my thigh where it came out of the ground, and clearly a tree the size of this one completely shrouded and hung with it, so that, you know, in estimating how much biomass you were looking at, you would have to estimate it in metric tons of material. And what these people discovered about ayahuasca, about, you know, what they found, was that it was a very, very, very
 Banisteriopsis copy was that it was marginally psychoactive by itself. It was, you know, an MAO inhibitor, but not an overt hallucinogen. But that they could combine it with plants containing DMT and they would become activated. Now it's interesting that this happened at the, that this technological breakthrough involved in the combining of one plant with another to create an effective drug happens at the end of this long process of cultural peregrinations and migrations. In other words, up until that time, so far as we know, there were not drugs. There were plants which get you high. A drug is where, is a combinatory thing where the phenomenon that pharmacologists call synergy, the causing of one thing to become more active by being in the presence of another thing, is being utilized. And this was, must have been developed rather late in the search for avenues to psychoactivity in the Amazon. What's going on there is that DMT-containing plants, either Cicotria viridis in the Rubiaceae or Diploteris cabrarena in the Malfagaceae in Colombia, are being added into these Banisteriopsis brews and are significantly changing the experience. Now above and beyond that, a very complex folk pharmacology has been put in place down there using what are called tertiary admixtures. In other words, if Banisteriopsis is the primary ingredient, if Cicotria viridis is the secondary ingredient, then there are also tertiary admixtures. And this is a very rich area for anthropological research because these tertiary admixtures are often highly localized, also very secret. This is the personal part of a shaman's repertoire, is his admixture plants. And if you can get these people to open up to you and share the identity of these admixture plants, almost invariably when you get them back into the laboratory and perform tests on them with Dragendorff's reagent and this kind of thing, they are alkaloid positive. They are chemically complex. In other words, these people, this is not a bunch of shuck and jive. These people have an extreme sensitivity to the presence of exotic chemicals in the environment and they know how to track them down. And so it's been very fruitful in our work to spend a lot of time on the tertiary admixtures and a lot of what we're doing in Hawaii. These are the things which are in danger of being lost. Ayahuasca, millions of people take ayahuasca in the Amazon. I venture to guess that it is the largest psychedelic religion on earth at this time. Over a vast area this is going on. But knowledge of these tertiary admixtures is fading fast and so is the availability of some of the plants. If some of you are interested in this, write to my brother at the Stanford Department of Neurology. He published two review papers on admixtures to ayahuasca in which the species names are given, the taxonomic families, and the identifiable chemical exotics are tabled there. And you can then see what a rich selection of psychoactive substances these people have to draw from. And they claim, you know, that they say ayahuasca is not one thing. Ayahuasca is many, many things because we change it. We change it for the circumstance. We change it for the personality. We change it for the problem. And I've come to think that this is quite true, that there is an entire medical system there. So that's what, at Botanical Dimensions, though we preserve all kinds of plants and have collectors in Thailand and West Africa and hither and yon, we've really put our attention on this one medical system because the evidence for its importance is the amazing balance, decency, dignity and integrity of these people. You know, I am a cynic from a cynic's point of view. I do not wax eloquent over the noble savage, and some of you have read my descriptions of my life among the Witoto, and I found them hard to put up with in some cases. It's not simply that if people are naked, they're beautiful. I mean, some naked people can be a real pain in the neck. But this ayahuasca complex is an ennobling folk way. These people have great heart and great sensitivity. I mean, they could get along fine at Esalen, these ayahuascaros. They are aware. You go into a village where this is happening, and the women may cluster around you, giggling and because you're so funny looking, all beet red and mosquito bitten and tons of stuff on your back. The shaman sees exactly who you are. He is not culture bound in the same way. And in a way, this is a definition of shamanism. Shamanism is a person who by some means has gotten themselves out of their own culture so they can look back at it and manipulate its symbols, its beliefs, its expectations, its rituals to an end. And of course, if it's a negative end, then you have magic, brujeria, sorcery, witchcraft. But if it's an end which serves and maximizes reasonable social goals, then you have true shamanism. In addition to the ayahuasca complex, about which I know a great deal because I've concentrated on it, also in the Amazon, there is a sub-complex of the detoura phenomenon. Throughout the world, the detouras are bushes. But as some of you may know, there are ornamental tree detouras that are a favorite with landscapists because they have these beautiful hanging flowers that shed scent in the evening. Well, all tree detouras originated in Peru and southern Colombia in the sub-family of the detouras called brugmansia. These are the arborescent detouras. And they have an exotic chemistry, even in comparison to the bush detouras. These are tropanes, hyalcyamine, L-hyalcyamine, scopolamine, and these are not true psychedelics. You may recognize the term scopolamine. This was the truth serum of Nazis in interrogation situations. And it really isn't a truth serum, it just causes you to dissolve your boundaries so thoroughly that you babble incessantly. And if someone's willing to listen and they know what they're listening for, you might spill the beans. But it isn't that you suddenly have a compulsion to tell the truth. If only such a thing were possible. Who would need psychedelics if there were a truth serum? The other complex that has been quite highly evolved in the Amazon, probably brought in by the Arawakan-speaking peoples who swept through the Caribbean, is the snuffing complex. In the far east of the South American continent, the snuffing complex concentrates on leguminous trees, their seeds, Anadenanthra peregrina, Anadenanthra macrocarpa. And those trees tend to, they're not trees of the deep climaxed rainforest. They're trees more of the coastal and semi-arid regions. So as you go into the true climaxed lowland rainforest, the snuff-using people had to find substitutes. And they very cleverly found a very excellent substitute in the form of a family of myristicaceous trees. The myristicaceae is a family that includes nutmeg. Myristicaceous trees of the genus Varrola. And they discovered that if you remove the bark of these trees before sunrise, when the sap is still in them, you can strip off these long, narrow...
 pieces of bark, and when you lay them on a low fire, or a bed of coals, the exudate, the sap, will rise up out of the inner cambium of the bark, and bead up on the interior surface as what looks like blood. This is the resin of varroa, and this is a broad spectrum source of psychoactive tryptamines. DMT occurs in it, 5-methoxy DMT occurs in it, other psychoactive, cardioactive, and inactive tryptamines occur in it. And it varies from species to species, and these varroa trees are outrageously difficult to identify. Even a taxonomist who has made this group his special field of study requires a handheld 50-power lens to make a species determination, because the species are determined by these little hairs on the underside of the leaf called trichomes. They're little hairs which come up and then split in three ways, and by the angle on the dangle you determine which varroa species you have in hand. It was very interesting in 1980, my brother and I, and a botanist from UBC and a fellow from Harvard, all went down to the Rio Ampeyacu Yaguas Yasu drainage, which is just over into Peru from Colombia, specifically to study this varroa complex, because we felt that it was in real danger of being lost in a hurry, that this was the fragile one. Some of you may know about the huica, or the yanomamo, or yanomami. These are peoples who use these varroa snuffs, and the way you do it is you pack a tube, a hollow tube with the ground-up seed dust, or in the case of the varroas, the ground-up resin, and someone blows it into your nostril with the full force of their breath, and it's like being hit in the side of the head by a log. I mean, you scream, you fall over backwards, you salivate, and by the time you've gotten back up on your haunches and cleared the mucus out of your system, the tube has been reloaded, and they do your other nostril then. And then you have an unambiguous intoxication, but it doesn't come anywhere near to being a DMT flash. This approach to the grail of the psychedelic experience is difficult with botanical materials. You have to take a lot, and you have to have the correct phytopharmacological strategy before you ever begin. In my opinion, you can't approach the real center of the psychedelic experience with psychobotanicals unless you're doing a fair bit of psilocybin or a fair bit of ayahuasca committed dose, otherwise you'll just slice low. Now, let's see. Did I leave anything out here? Well, I left out ergot. I'll say a little bit about it. Ergot is not used as a psychedelic anywhere in the modern world. Nevertheless, ergot is the source of LSD, and it is grown in Pakistan, not only of LSD. The reason it's grown in Pakistan is that ergonomine tartrate, which can be made into LSD, has for many years, and perhaps still is, there are now competitors, but for many years was the preferred drug for migraine. As a migraineur, I took a lot of it years ago. Migraine is a condition that is not well understood, but operationally, what it is is a sudden uncontrolled vasodilation that allows too much blood pressure on the head and intense head pain. Ergonomine tartrate is a vasoconstrictor and just will squeeze your veins down to very small. This is wonderful for migraine. You may have heard horror stories in the 1960s about people who took too much LSD and developed gangrene in their fingers and toes. This is possible. This is true. It's the vasoconstricting aspect of LSD. It's not related to its psychological effects. It is physically a strong vasoconstrictor. Ergot may have had a history of usage as a hallucinogen because Gordon Wasson, Karl Rook, and Albert Hoffman argued fairly persuasively that ergot, ergotized beer, lay behind the hallucinian mysteries. As you probably know, Eleusis was a cult site near Athens where every September for 2,000 years a great initiatory celebration was held in honor of Persephone's return from the kingdom of the underworld and the restoration to her mother. It was clearly a right of hallucinogenic use of some sort, and Wasson, Rook, Hoffman argued that it was ergotized beer. I question this because I think that there would have been more problems at Eleusis if it had been ergotized beer. Ergot is something not to mess around with. You could kill yourself in a big hurry with this stuff, and the notion that year after year beer could be brewed reliably that would intoxicate several thousand people at these ceremonies and there would not be any bad public relations about death or tremoring or convulsions causes me to wonder. The proof of the pudding for the Wasson-Rook theory would have been go to the Eleusinian plain, gather ergot from the wild rye, and brew ergotized beer. I mean, why not carry these experiments out? If we're confident in our theory, the proof of the pudding would be to do that. I wouldn't touch ergotized beer. I'd want to see a liquid gas chromatogram and an infrared mass spectrophotometry data before I knocked back a pint of ergotized beer. A small voice in opposition to this theory of Wasson, Hoffman, and Rook was the English poet and bon vivant Robert Graves. He believed that it was simply mushrooms, that it was simply mushrooms. His argument for this was he took the list of ingredients that was used in the cult. It isn't simply a list like you would do research and get the recipe. There was actually a published list of ingredients that was always, and the ingredients were always listed in a certain order, and one of the ingredients was water. And Graves argued that it's crazy in a recipe for beer to include water because you know that you're going to add water. So he argued that these words were to be interpreted as an augum. Do you know what an augum is? An augum is when you have a list of words and you're supposed to take the first letter of each word in the list and it spells out a secret message. And Graves showed that the six ingredients always stated to go into the beer at Eleusis could be easily arranged so their first letters spelled out the Greek word for mushroom, mikos. And so he made that argument. Well, it's not clear either way. In fact, the Eleusinian mystery is quite mysterious because if they were mushrooms, all trace of them has died out and there's not unambiguous iconographical representation of mushrooms. We have a few vase paintings where something small is being handed around. But to say with certainty that it's a mushroom isn't really playing fair. Well, I wanted to run over this today with you and pretty much give it to you in one burst. There wasn't time for questions. I'll take questions on all of this data at the beginning of the next session. This is really just to bring you up to speed. It's the kind of information that you should have under your belt if you're trying to make informed and intelligent decisions about your own spiritual growth in relationship
 to these things. I mean, anybody who's interested in taking a new or an old drug, my advice would be the first stop is the library. You know, find out as much as you possibly can. It's gonna mean a lot to you when you get out there in the billows because, you know, I mean I've had experiences where the shaman said, take this, but never shake the bottle. So then I got, you know, five years passed and I'm trying to remember, did this guy say take this but never shake the bottle? Or did he say take this but always shake the bottle? Well, being a pharmacologist, you know, having a background in pharmacology and ordinary scientific thinking, I decided, well, he must have said always shake the bottle because we want to agitate the stuff on the bottom and get it up into solution. Well, I'm telling you, pay attention because mistakes like this, if they don't kill you, they can scare the socks off you. It's all in the details, you know. I think we pretty much covered the waterfront. One last thought that I'll leave you with. I talked about the unclaimed nature of the argyria morning glories and how fascinating this is, how interesting it is to hypothesize possible hallucinogens, possible combinations that have never been used by people. An interesting one that was suggested just recently that I want to do research on and find out more about because I am puzzled by the soma problem and not really happy with any of the current answers. But reserpine occurs in Rauwolfia serpentina, an Indian tree. Reserpine is the first tranquilizer. It's possible that, well, no, it's pretty clear that reserpine works by inhibiting serotonin, that reserpine somehow competes with serotonin for its uptake. So if you were to combine reserpine with pergamon harmala or a psychoactive tryptamine, and there are some on the Indian subcontinent, one of the most interesting ones is arundodonax. Now this is a plant that really has a suggestive aura about it. We have no history of human usage for visionary purposes of arundodonax. Nevertheless, it is the giant river reed of the old world. To this day, the reeds for reed instruments, for clarinets and piccolos, comes from this plant. The very best ones are made from the shafts of the arundodonax plant. Well, the roots of this plant contain large amounts of DMT. Well, think about the symbolism here. Orpheus was a god of music. Orpheus was a flutist. And Orpheus made a descent into the underworld in search of his beloved. And the so-called Orphic strain in Greek religion is the magical, mystical, extra mundane strain in Greek religion. It seems to me entirely reasonable to suggest that the old, old strata of the Orphic religion may contain, may be pointing us toward looking at arundodonax as a plant with a hallucinogenic potential whose efficacy was lost before the rise of literate Greek civilization. So I don't want you to think that all mysteries have been solved and all work has been done in this area. It hasn't at all. The flora of Africa, the flora of eastern New Guinea, the flora of the Amazon, of Mexico, of what little forest remains in Africa, all of these areas may yield astonishing tools for spiritual and shamanic exploration when the cataloging and the phytochemical analysis is complete. There's a generation of work still to be done. That's it, folks.

Terence McKenna - Alien Footprints Leprechauns, Elves, Or Dead Souls - Weekend Workshop, May 1993

The important part of these things, I think, in terms of lasting impact is, you know, it's set up to have a lot of energy fed into the white guy at the front of the room, but the real deal is the community, not in some airy sense, but in the sense that someone in this room has what you need or knows how to get it, and since we look like everybody else in society, more or less, I view these events as coming out parties of a sort, and if you actually connect with the people around you, it probably sets you up for a long-term involvement with these things. Hopefully it doesn't set you up for anything else. You do have to use your native intelligence. More and more over the years, the motivation for these things has been simply to bring people together who have an interest in consciousness alteration and talk about the implications, the methods, the materials, and the ethnographic and social context of it, and the group sort of sets the agenda. I mean, some groups, it's recipe exchange time, and it's very much down on the practical nitty-gritty level, new plants, new techniques, and that's very useful. Other groups, it's implications. I mean, what does this mean? It is a very curious category of human experience. The only thing I can compare it to is human sexuality, but the differences are vast because human sexuality is pretty much scripted into the biology of each one of us. In other words, it's unlikely that you're going to get to the grave without having some kind of confrontation or exploration of your sexuality. It is entirely possible to go to the grave without ever coming near to psychedelics or even having heard about it, yet once you encounter it, you see that this is an aspect or an activity as informing of what it means to be human, as something as inimical to our nature as sexuality. So it's sort of the secret agenda of the brain-mind system or the secret agenda of the human organism. Why, perturbed by the tertiary constituents of some few species of plants, does the human mind break forth with Niagara's of alien beauty? It doesn't make evolutionary sense. It seems, as Aldous Huxley said of it, a gratuitous grace. What he meant by that was it's neither necessary nor sufficient for salvation, but it's a wonderful kick in the pants anyway. It's like a freebie from nature. And culture, at least the culture that we're living in, has over centuries, in fact a couple millennia, become tremendously phobic about this aspect of what it is to be human. They're also, it bears pointing out, fairly phobic about sexuality too. It's just that they've never figured out a way to regulate it the way they can regulate this. If they could make it illegal, they would. Instead, such things as having people close their eyes when they undress so they're not subject to temptation. I mean, this went on in the cult that I escaped from, which was the Roman Catholic Church. And this has been going on for a long, long time, this perturbation of consciousness with plants and the exploration of these magical dimensions. Nevertheless, it seems to me, anyway, that it has a potential role in the planetary crisis, that somehow the nature of the crisis is in some sense psychological. In other words, we have the technology to save ourselves. We have the financial base. We have the tools of mass communication and propaganda and so forth. But what we lack is the will to change our minds. We're trying to deal with a global situation on the brink of self-immolation, and we're doing it with the brains of Stone Age hunters. And it's astonishing that we've gotten as far as we have. I mean, you know, if you think that human beings are sort of the little brothers of the angels, then it's a pretty screwed up situation. But the fact of the matter is that human beings are some kind of advanced form of primate. And when you think about that, and that we hurl instruments outside the solar system, we can, if so inclined, call down the processes that light the stars in heaven down upon the cities of our enemies. Monkeys, you know, first cousin to the groundhog and the chipmunk, doing things like this is an extraordinary situation. Mind, you know, our whole culture is lived out in the light of the myth that everything is understood, and that everything is as it appears, that the surface is everything. In order to maintain that fiction, an extraordinary intellectual sight of hand has to be performed, because what has to be denied is the magical nature of the perceiver, and that's oneself. If this planet were simply the habitat of sperm whales, hummingbirds, and termites, then Darwinian evolutionary mechanics as modified by molecular genetics would be sufficient to explain what's going on on this planet. But the extraordinary manifestation of cognitive ability in one species has created a situation that is entirely outside the domain of evolutionary theory. We are the anomalous factor in the natural world. Something happened to us a couple of million years ago, not that long ago, and an animal species, an advanced animal species of which there have been many in the history of the earth, began to fall under the influence of a kind of a tractor, a kind of, well, in the same way that iron filings will arrange themselves into a complex pattern when a magnet is brought near them, like under the surface of a piece of paper that they're resting on, the human species began to organize itself at the behest of a kind of invisible field that was penetrating into this species, and what came out of this is what's called epigenetic process. Epigenetic means processes not under the control of genes. Now, in nature, you have epigenetic processes at the inorganic level. We would call the dynamics of the sun epigenetic or the dynamics of continental drift or desert building or volcanism. These are epigenetic processes. But we established an epigenetic foothold at the other end of the spectrum in the domain of conceptuality, and for a hundred thousand years at least, the human form has not been physically modified in any dramatic fashion. They have human skeletons from the Clossus River cave mouth site in South Africa, a hundred thousand years old, people indistinguishable from modern humans, and yet in that hundred thousand years, we have reinvented ourselves over and over and
 over again. First as goddess-worshipping nomads practicing an orgiastic religion and following our flocks across the plains of Africa. Then as city builders in the Middle East dominated by kingship and obsessed with agriculture and monotheism. Then as pantheistic philosophs with a penchant for metaphysical speculation, the whole Hellenistic world. Then a new phase of imperialism, so forth and so on. And this is simply, I'm just following the Western thread of development. So the elaboration of languages, cultural forms, styles of ornament, all of these things represent something entirely new on the face of nature. And imagine, I mean, the planet has existed for four and a half billion years. And all kinds of evolutionary surges have taken place. The age of the cross-Suctarigian fishes, the age of amphibians, the carboniferous forests of the Pennsylvanian, the eras, the sauropods, the age of mammals, so forth and so on. All of these things have come and gone without intelligence being called out of nature. But for some reason it happened to us. I'm not going to discuss it this evening. If somebody wants to ask a question about it tomorrow, I can sketch for you why I think psychedelics had a role in human emergence. But that's not my point this evening. My point this evening is simply the fact of the matter. The fact that consciousness is inexplicable and it is the confounding of the very reductionist theories that it itself has generated. Science, beginning from the time of the Greeks, the method was basically to attack the simplest problems first. So questions like, what is matter? This we made great strides with. Questions like, what is language? were not even seriously asked until the 19th century and only began to be answered in the 20th century. The mind, as an object of psychology, is a study really less than a hundred years old, or approximately a hundred years old. So reductionism solved the simple problems first. Science is no better at providing final answers than is astrology or voodoo or any other self-consistent intellectual system. And where we've gotten into trouble is that science, based on its bobble production capacity, has claimed a kind of preeminence among intellectual systems so that all models of the universe are supposedly to be submitted to science for it to pass judgment upon. This is really a mistake. It's a naive understanding of what the intellectual enterprise is. The best you can ask of a theory is that it be self-consistent on its own terms. So astrology is self-consistent on its own terms. Homeopathy is self-consistent on its own terms. Science, mathematics, but no one of these systems can claim preeminence to judge the others. I mention this because I think part of what being psychedelic is about, the real shock of psychedelics comes from the realization of the relativity of cultural positions, that nothing is really secure. Every society that has ever lived or flourished on this planet has assumed that it had a model of reality that was 95% correct, and that the missing 5% would be provided in the next 20 years. And every society that held that assumption was wrong. We now, from our exalted position on the pyramid of epistemic enterprise, can make that judgment. But what we don't get is that must mean then that we too are whistling past the graveyard, and that these fine models that we entertain will, from the vantage point of some future world, appear as quaint, as contrived, and as cramped as the medieval cosmology or the Sumerian mythology appears to us today. Well, so then the deal is that life is some kind of an opportunity to basically indulge yourself in the exploration of circumstance, what Wittgenstein called the present at hand, and everyone is born into a preconceived modality of what the present at hand is. You inherit this from your culture, you know, you're educated into it, and it's possible to never question that, and then to operate within the values of that system. So if it makes a premium of being a good warrior, you learn to kill cleanly. If it makes an idol of being able to amass vast amounts of money, then you do that, and then you gain the respect of the culture. But at a certain point, for people above a certain level of intelligence, which is not that high, I might add, the question arises as to, you know, just how real and enduring these cultural values are. And at that point, you're set up to melt down the culturally inherited mind and attempt to recast it into something with which you can be more comfortable. And this is where the psychedelics come in. Over the course of the weekend, we'll talk about them in different ways, but at the beginning I like to talk about them in the simplest way possible, and say, you know, I had a professor, actually some of you may have read his books, Paul Feyerabend, and he used to say to us in Epistemology 101, I'll teach you to recognize the truth, and I'll teach you what's so great about it. And the second question is much more interesting than the first. Well, psychedelics are like that, looked at generically, where we're not concerned with the particularized exotic of your trip or my trip, but looked at from the scale of a thousand or ten thousand trips, what is generally true is that these things dissolve boundaries. And if you, this turns out to be tremendously important, because the only other points in life where boundaries are dissolved is at the brink of the yawning grave, and at orgasm, and at the edge of sleep. And dissolution of boundary is somehow the precondition for understanding reality. It's a paradox, and we will meet many paradoxes, because the effort to create intellectual closure in any system is again a product of intellectual infantilism. The truth about reality is that nowhere is it writ large that monkeys should be able to elicit a final understanding of it. I mean, if you met a termite whose goal was to understand reality, you would think this was a charming naivete. Well, but I've got news for you. The difference between you and a termite cast against that enterprise is precisely zilch. So what sophisticated people, whatever that means, learn to do is live with unanswered questions, live without closure. It's not unusual in a physics experiment.
 to, from theory, be able to predict an experimental result to three decimal points of accuracy. So all of the sciences aspired to this level of mathematical precision and formality. Meanwhile, physics, moving ahead of the pack, moved into the domain of the micro-physical, and all that precision fell to pieces. And it was revealed that, at that level, particles are both wave and concrest object, time runs backward, causality is slewed, particles virtually penetrate energy thresholds that they can't get over. I mean, it is a funhouse of paradoxical effects. And I think that I saw a videotape of a discussion that illuminated all this. Some of you may have seen this book that was published last year called Consciousness Explained by Dennett. It should have been called Consciousness Explained Away. It was really a stupid book. This is my test for books on the origin of consciousness. You just flip to the index to drugs. And if there's no entry, you don't give up yet. You look at psychedelic, and if there's no entry, save your money, folks. Because no theory of consciousness is going to be worth anything that doesn't come to terms with the perturbation of consciousness by drugs. Anyway, I saw Dennett in conversation with a physicist on Dutch TV. And Dennett was saying, I just want to eliminate the idea that the brain is magical material. And the physicist turned to him and said, But don't you realize, my dear fellow, we physicists have now established that matter is magical material. And so that's where that discussion was left. As this realization of the paradoxicality implicit in all phenomenon rolls back into the sciences, the life sciences I'm talking about now, I think the psychedelics will become much more interesting, and the data that they produce will become much more assimilable. The thing that got me into this in the beginning, I mean, other than that I was a hedonist and I like to get loaded and this and that, but the philosophical thing was this question of, it began basically as just the simple question of the source of the visions. Because trying to think with a certain degree of intellectual cleanness, you can see that there is no reason why every single one of us should have locked in our brain a Niagara of visual beauty. What is it doing there? Evolution teaches us that organismic architectures must be efficient, that a species that wastes energy on the retention of an organ or a chemical system or a behavior that does not promote survival is an organism on the way to being eliminated from life's competitive game. Well, why then, a billion and a half years after life started, do we each have this innate capacity to produce more art, more beauty in an hour and a half episode of hallucination than the entire species has produced in 15,000 years of artistic endeavor? It doesn't make any sense in evolutionary terms, unless it's not in the organism, this data. Unless the argument that evolutionary mechanics are impinging on this data is a false argument. This relates to, and this is sort of a subset of the neurophysiological problems that reflect on psychedelics, but the problem of memory. Memory is a real problem for reductionist physiologists because it's well understood that in the course of a 70-year lifetime you will swap out every atom in your body except neural DNA seven or eight times. And yet there are 80-year-old people who with no difficulty at all can remember the smell of their grandmother's dress when as a three-year-old she used to take them into her lap. How is this possible? Where is the memory trace that it can survive all of this cycling of material? A physicalist would want to claim that it must be in the neural DNA, but geneticists have such a limited definition of the kinds of information that can be stored in DNA that they totally heap scorn on the idea that you could, for example, store a phone number or an odor or a line of poetry in DNA. They say you've missed the concept. You don't realize the information in DNA is protein sequence information, nothing else. If true, then that hands back to everybody the problem of memory. Is it possible then that memory is somehow stored outside the body? Of course, this sounds radical, but you have to remember to the 19th century action at a distance was thought to be magic. The notion that 100 years into the future the world would be bathed in an ocean of UHF, VHF, radio, TV, and other forms of electromagnetic information carrying data everywhere would have been totally a cult to the 19th century. They would not have been able to conceive of that. Our paradigm, our scientific paradigm, is obviously in need of serious revision, and where the exhibits can be elucidated that make this point most strongly is in psychological and mental phenomena, and within that domain it's the perturbation of the brain-mind system by psychedelics that is most dramatic. Another point on this breakdown of physics thing, to preserve its enterprise even in a diminished form, what the physicists have had to do is make a place in their theorizing for the observer. The observer becomes very important to these quantum mechanical processes, and in fact outcomes are affected by the interaction with the observer. The reason psychologists have been so standoffish with psychedelics is because they were operating under an earlier scientific paradigm where the observer was thought to be a kind of god-like point of view outside the system. Now the news comes from physics that there is no such thing as outside the system, that that's an intellectual fiction again based on naivete. This seems to me to open the door for legitimate taking of psychedelics by the researchers who are then going to describe their effects on other people or their pharmacokinetics or any other parameter of these substances. And finally, I think that the model of psychedelics that I've come to rest with after operating with the others, and I'll briefly enumerate them, this isn't an exhaustive list, but the approaches to psychedelics, one of the earliest ones was the madness model or the psychotomimetic model. This said, aha, madness must be chemically based, these chemicals are pseudo and near neurotransmitters, they must mimic madness. The obvious conclusion from believing that is that you would then go and look at the cerebrospinal fluid of insane people and you should find psychedelic molecules. This has turned out to be incredibly frustrating, and in fact it's basically been abandoned. DMT, for example, which you would, if you were naive, would just deceive you with justice.
 assume, I think, that human madness might be related to DMT, and DMT does occur in human metabolism, but not at elevated levels in schizophrenics, and not in any way correlated to any other pathology. So that was one model, the madness model. Then a more friendly model was sort of the Freudian slash Jungian model, that there is a portion of our mental life called the unconscious, which is hidden from the ordinary inspection of the conscious mind, and that on psychedelics you access portions of this. In the Freudian variety, it's all about repressed sexual stuff, and wish fulfillment, and what he called day residues, meaning jumbled memories of recent experience. I think the Jungian, except in the case of LSD, which is a rather Freudian drug, actually, in other words, you do recover memories of childhood episodes of abuse, and you do realize that you've been treating people badly, and so forth. It seems addressed to the psychodynamics of the self. The Jungian model is a broader model, because it says, again, countervailing these geneticists who say DNA only contains protein sequencing information, the Jungians want to say that there is a race memory, a collective unconscious, that you can go deep into the self, and reach beyond personal memory, and personal trauma, to racial memory, and racial trauma, and ultimately by a process of following these genetic trees, all life, all of the guy in biosphere becomes available. So that's another model. A model that is closer to my presupposition, but not sufficiently formal, I guess would be the word, is shamanism. Shamanism, as probably most of you know, is the worldwide paleolithic religion of ecstasis and magical curing that is how religion was practiced for the first million years, before weasels got hold of it, and substituted dogma for experience. I mean, that's the real difference between shamanism and other religious enterprises, is there is no such thing as shamanic theology. Shamanism is experience. And I, for a long time, found that the most satisfying model. Even though shamanism is archaic, in a sense, that's almost a science fiction model, because what the shamanic model is saying is that there is a parallel universe, or universes of some sort, and that you can, by ascending some kind of cosmic axis, it differs from culture to culture, it's like an elevator in reality, and you discover there are these different planes you can visit, and acquire power, and cut deals, and become a curer, and transcend cultural limitation. The model that I've come to favor, that is more radical, I guess, in its implications, because it takes the phenomenon more seriously, is the model that is largely mathematical. In other words, saying that the proper way to talk about the psychedelic experience is in the vocabulary of non-euclidean and hyper higher plane geometry. The notion being something like this, that the mind is a multi-dimensional manifold of some sort, but it takes the shape of its vessel in the same way that a liquid takes the shape of its vessel. And because we are animals of meat and sinew, the circumstance into which mind must pour itself is a situation of evolutionary competition and constant threat. And so in our species, mind has developed into a kind of all-purpose threat detection device. The correlation of intelligence to paranoia ought to prove this. So what mind does for us is it's constantly calculating the odds of danger, and physical attack, and strategy of response, and so forth and so on. But that is not the essence of mind. That is the response of mind to being contained or constrained by this lower dimensional space. And when you take a psychedelic in silent darkness, where there's no extraneous parameters forcing themselves in upon you, the mind unfolds itself. Or another way to think of it would be, you know, there are certain compounds in organic and inorganic chemistry that have more than one crystal formation. At a certain temperature, they crystallize and have a certain crystalline geometry. But if you keep raising the temperature, sulfur will do this, for example. It reliquifies. Then at a yet higher temperature, it recrystallizes again. This is how I think of mind, that put through the crucible of the psychedelic experience, and I use this kind of alchemical terminology deliberately, put through the crucible of the psychedelic experience. The mind becomes fluid and then is recast in a higher dimensional manifold. This is why, you see, what's always claimed of shamanism by shamans is that they violate ordinary causality. And what that means is they can see who stole the chicken, or who ran away with the game, or who's philandering who. Now anthropologists dismiss this and say all these people are naive about causality and ordinary epistemic categories, and so forth and so on. But that's not what's happening. They actually do, do these things. Anybody who spends time with shaman will become aware, not of spectacular magic, not of, you know, Carlos Castaneda style dances in the waterfalls and appearing 500 miles away from where you started 10 minutes later, but a very subtle kind of magic, all of which can be reduced to that these people have a slight hyperspatiality to their relationship to time. In the ordinary experience is a point-like experience of the now. These shamans seem to diffuse their consciousness and are actually running slightly ahead of everybody else. This is why shamans can, are always associated with weather prediction, you know, because you only have to have a leg up 24 hours to produce spectacular weather prediction. This is why shamans know where the game went, because they see where the game went. And it doesn't seem that far-fetched when you think about the fact that, from one point of view, all biology is about the conquest of dimensionality. This is a statement that is consistent from ourselves sitting here this evening down to the first protobiotic slimes on clay banks in the, you know, archaeozoic. Life conquers dimensions. The earliest forms of life were fixed in space. They were point-like. They had no organs of sense at all. Then what came was motility, and, but still no extended perceptors. Life literally felt its way. Then light-sensitive pigmentation sequestered itself on the surfaces of primitive organisms.
 and they established a light gradient, a sense of here and there. Notice that to have a sense of here and there, you have to have a sense of time, which is another dimension. You are claiming that dimension and integrating it into your description of the world. Higher order animals simply build on that conquest of spatiality until you get to advanced, highly advanced primates. And then you get language. And language is clearly a strategy for escaping from the point-like nature of the present. Because with language, you can command the past and you can strategically anticipate the future. So your existence is extended in a geometric sense. Now I think this in the same way that you all know the clich ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny. In that spirit then, culture is now recapitulating the individual journey toward hyperdimensionality. And culture is about to go hyperdimensional. That's what is creating the crisis at the end of history. The reason history is ending is because it's a linear enterprise and it's about to be phased out. Psychedelics make all of this operationally potentized, usable. In other words, it isn't just simply a rap of some sort. It's a roadmap. It's a way of relating to reality. And as the weekend goes forward, we'll explore the implications of this for ourselves personally, as a tool for personal growth, and as a cultural metaphor, which is sort of what I have tried to bring to the psychedelic thing that other people haven't. Ultimately, I see it as a culture-transforming engine. But of course, the elements of culture are individuals. And to the degree that individuals psychedelicize themselves, they force this process forward into completion. And I feel that there's a certain urgency about this, and there may be a certain urgency about it. In any case, it has a moral imperative, which may sound strange since it's illegal and invaded against and excoriated as vice and degradation. But nevertheless, if consciousness doesn't loom large in the human future, then it is not a human future. So nature is looking with hard eyes at this little experiment launched with the melting of the glaciers. We consider the dinosaurs a failure. For a hundred million years, they were the masters of the planet. We've pulled our act together in the last million years, and we're already staring extinction in the face. And yet, the enterprise of intelligence is without precedent in the organic world. I mean, where are you going to get Milton? Where are you going to get Einstein? Where are you going to get Bach and Duccio and all the rest of the gang out of a world of hummingbirds, chipmunks, and glaciers? So I don't think we should sell ourselves short. We are not epiphenomenal. We are the trigger species on this planet. We are now basically directing and impacting on the entire biome of the planet. The implications of this have yet to be worked out. We don't know whether we're witnessing a rush toward extinction or whether we are setting ourselves up for a leap into a higher order of reality. Psychedelics, I think, exist not only to birth this process but to also assuage the anxiety that is connected with it because it is a phase transition of major magnitude. I don't think it's the yawning grave, but I also don't think you're going to take your Ferrari with you. It's going to be tight, indeed, getting through this narrow neck. And what lies beyond it is as incomprehensible to us as future life as a collector of mogul miniatures and stock brokering would be to a fetus trapped in the birth canal. You know, when you're trapped in the birth canal, it just looks like suffocation, strangulation, termination, death. You cannot conceive that it is a necessary initiation to a higher order of existence. Yes? Regarding what you said last night, the Today touch-up, basically somebody raised the question, which I am, but on the mushroom's role in the communication process, basically that's the... You said you want to ask the question today. Okay. Yes, well, the book that I did for Bantam called Food of the Gods, I sort of thought of as a Trojan horse for anthropology because I had a conscious political agenda which was I wanted to insinuate the notion of psychedelics as necessary to human evolution. I wanted to insinuate that idea into orthodox anthropology and primate evolutionary theory. So I wrote a book addressed to the larger world, in other words, in an academic style with footnotes and so forth and so on, arguing that the way to account for our peculiar predicament in nature, in other words, that we are obviously some kind of animal, but yet carrying this enormous proclivity for code generation and manipulation of material. I mean, we are literally the idea-excreting animal. We don't make honeycombs and coral reefs. We make transistors and automobiles and skyscrapers and aircraft and all of this stuff, that our predicament in nature can only be explained by some extraordinary confluence of unusual forces. And orthodox evolutionary theory, when it comes to human emergence, basically fails. Nobody has a clue, because it happens so quickly. The human brain doubled in size in a million and a half years. The anthropologist evolutionary biologist Lumholtz calls this the most dramatic modification of a major organ of a higher animal in the entire fossil record. And it cannot be explained by evolutionary theory as Darwinian theory as modified by molecular genetics to the great embarrassment of these concerns, because it is, after all, the organ which generated this theory. A point not to be lost sight of, you see. So, my notion was that there must have been an extraordinary catalytic interaction of some sort that had to be driven by some kind of factor in the environment. And bipedalism, binocular vision, incipient language, complex pax signaling, all of this comes together at a moment of dietary crisis in our remote ancestors. Because as we left the arboreal canopy of the climaxed rainforests, which were under climatological retreat at that time, that's why we were leaving, we had to switch our diet from being fruititarian and insectivorous. Suddenly that was all very difficult to obtain. And the bit in nature is that animals tend to specialize foods as a strategy for avoiding mutagenic influence in the environment. In other words, if you only eat one thing and you have enzyme systems designed to guard you against any toxin present in that food, then you can hold the level of chemically induced mutation to a low level. If you're an omnivore, you're at high risk for toxicologically induced mutational stress. And when we went into this food experimental phase, one of the foods that we surely would have encountered was psilocybin mushrooms, because ungulate animals,
 cattle were evolving in the same African grassland environment. Psilocybin, to my mind, is uniquely positioned environmentally and pharmacologically to be the trigger enzyme for this induction of consciousness into this advanced hominid. The reasons are that, well, the first reason is purely physiological, that low doses of psilocybin increase visual acuity, and this would have tremendous impact on an animal that was surviving through predation. On low doses of psilocybin, your sensitivity to edge detection, which means movement of an animal in a grassland environment at a distance, is up to 20% more sensitive than in an unstoned human being. The guy who discovered this, Roland Fisher, said to me when I discussed it with him, he said, so you see, here is a case where taking a drug definitely gives you a more accurate picture of reality than if you had avoided the drug. It's just a perfect proof of it. Well, at higher doses, psilocybin induces group sexual activity, orgy, because it causes arousal. If any of you are primatologists, you probably know that we are very closely related to chimpanzees, and that then there is a second set of chimpanzees, a species or subspecies, there's argument about it, called bonobos, and the sexual style of these two brands of chimpanzees could hardly be more different. The ordinary chimpanzee, it's all about male dominance, female control, suppression of homosexuality, just, you know, the bit, and the bonobos are like polymorphically sexual and pansexual, and just, you know, a complete ongoing party all the time. And the genetic difference between these two species is very, very slight, but the behavioral difference is tremendous. And more and more, as you approach the realm of consciousness, behavior becomes what is being modified, rather than the physical expression. The third, you know, that behaviors are modified, but organs and general physical presentation isn't. And the third level of catalytic action by psilocybin in terms of evolution is that it triggers cognition, whatever that means. It also triggers glossolalia, spontaneous displays of language-like activity. And I imagine that the secret to understanding the emergence of language is to realize that language was fully developed before meaning was attached to it, that it's an abstract expressionist activity for most of the history of its use, and only in the past 50,000 years or so has it been enslaved to the concept of symbolic activity. The mystery of our position in nature has to do with the fact that, like, that the... Well, let me put it this way. All primates, clear back to squirrel monkeys and lemurs, have dominance hierarchies, male dominance hierarchies. What this means is that the young, hard-bodied, long-fanged males control everybody. The elderly, the females, the young, homosexuals, everybody is under the control. And what happened to us as a species by design or accident is another issue which we can discuss. But what happened to us is that for perhaps as long as a million years, by including psilocybin in the diet, we inhibited this tendency to form these dominance hierarchies. That's what the group sex was all about. It represents a boundary dissolution. You see, in an orgiastic society, lines of male paternity cannot be traced. Consequently, men do not own children in those kinds of societies. The loyalty of men goes to the group, the children of the group. And it forms a much more cohesive social mind, if you will. We functioned like this for perhaps 150,000 years in the light of consciousness. What was happening on the African plain was a slow migration of behaviors and habits toward the domestication of cattle. It began, you see, with our truly primitive hominid ancestors probably just following along behind these large herds of ungulate animals living on lion kills and stuff like that. But what following along behind cattle means is a familiarity with manure. And what that means is mushrooms in a tropical grassland environment. And over the millennia, the cattle, the mushrooms, and the human beings were drawn into a tighter and tighter symbiosis so that at the melting of the last glaciers 22,000 years ago, from then until about 10,000 B.C., what you actually had was a kind of partnership paradise and the actual moment of human archaic fulfillment when men and women and human beings and the environment and everything was in balance for perhaps 10,000 years. And in that period, and it was not dramatic. I don't mean to imply that. It was a process stretched out over the last 100,000 years. In that period, the things that make us most human and most different from animal existence were put in place. Things like music, art, altruism, theater, dance, poetry, play, technology. All of these things came into being. Well, then when the mushroom religion faded and human populations blossomed out over the planet and the Sahara turned dry and the cradle was emptied, these pharmacologically suppressed patterns of male dominance reasserted themselves. I mean, there was literally a reversion to a set of behaviors that had been chemically suppressed for a very, very long time. And you get then control of women by men, classism, xenophobia, warfare, the whole set of screwball institutions that have pushed us to the brink of Armageddon come into play right then when we grew beyond the bounds of this symbiotic relation with psilocybin. So that was the end. The chimpanzee strain that you discussed is still there. Is that current? Is that a strain? Bonubo. Where psilocybin still grows and they still live on? No, no. None of these primates are grassland creatures. This was a unique human thing, probably because what happened was the forest environments in which we were at climax turned into islands. And the only environment available, they were islanded by grassland, the only environment available. And as the resource base in the canopy shrank, there was real pressure to explore this new environment. Grasslands are very recent. All the species of the grasslands can be found in the forest understory. And the forest itself has many, many orders of magnitude more species than the grasslands. There's a lot of people that say that the change happened when extraterrestrials came down and influenced the primates. Do you have any feeling on that? Well, there was a little genuflection to that in my rap when I said whether by chance or design, our remote ancestors contacted the mushroom. The extraterrestrials are in a sense an unnecessary hypothesis because it could have been perfectly chance that we encountered these mushrooms in the environment. The fact that they are so extraterrestrial in presentation, actually I was thinking about this two nights ago in the middle of the night and Alan Bediner and I got quite excited because I saw more clearly than I'd ever seen before how this extraterrestrial pharmacology
 deal might work, and it's something like this. Imagine that you are an extraterrestrial with an incredibly advanced technical understanding of life, matter, so forth and so on, so that you can essentially produce anything at the technological level. And for some reason you want to contact a primate on the third planet of a G-type star off on the edge of Baboon Wazoo. But you're advanced. You're millions of years in advance of us, and you have advanced ethics, and so forth and so on. So what you can't do, nor would it be fruitful, is to land trillion-ton beryllium ships in the center of North Dakota and hand out a cancer cure or something like that. So it doesn't work like that. What you want to do is you want to have a contact with this species, but you don't want it to be invasive at all, and you don't, in a sense, even want the species to realize that the contact is in fact that. And so you come, and by some means you study the situation on this planet that you want to penetrate. And what comes to you is you say, well, they have a curious lacuna in their epistemology. They intoxicate themselves chemically and do not apply the ordinary rules of evidentiary completion to these episodes of intoxication. Therefore, we will design a chemical approach. We will seed ourselves into the environment and place ourselves in a dimension where they only encounter us in this domain of sanctioned peculiarity. In other words, we will hide behind the pink elephants. And then you, because it is like that. It is very much like that. Any of you who have dealt with the mushroom, I mean, it presents itself, it's incredibly kind to the beginner, and it presents itself in this cheerful, almost nursery-like, almost absurdly beguiling kind of mode. It's like, welcome, come in. We're all having fun here. You come too. Orange juice? But as time goes on, you learn that no surface is the bottom and that it keeps, it has these aspects to its personality. And I think that, I don't know, I just saw with great clarity the other night how this would be the strategy of a supermind. It would not come in 3D. It would come through the mental dimension. It would either come through dream or it would come through an intoxication of some sort. And shamanism, these people have adjusted to this. I mean, this is the faith of shamanism. For 100,000 years, people have been going into trance and talking to spirits. And, you know, we only got rid of this notion 300 years ago in a civilization so ass-backward that we're murdering the planet. So how sure can we be that this concept of spirit doesn't actually hold some water? So what use would the contact be unless the primate race knew they were being contacted? Well, it's deepening is what's happening. Whatever this thing is, it's patient. And it's willing to take a million years to reveal its true agenda. So what it starts out is it says, you can be my friend. I'll tell you what the weather is going to be next week. I'll tell you where the reindeer have gone. You can use this information to become a high mucky-muck in your social group. And furthermore, I will tell you how to set bones, how to treat disease, so forth and so on. So what it is is they're mean traders. They trade knowledge for what? That's the question. Involvement. They want involvement. They are somehow running the connection. We aren't. They, in other words, they decided to initiate it. They designed these compounds or somehow insinuated themselves into this mental dimension. They have a plan. We don't know the plan. And it seems to be, you know, in a nutshell, something about the condensation of the word. Their program is a program of linguistic reformation. They are the bearers of the news that language can become a thing seen. They are the purveyors of a higher order of the logos. And, you know, what all this means is very hard to say. Science has, in a sense, sold us short in this dimension. I mean, we're not in as opportune a position to understand this as rainforest Iowa scarrows are or pygmies singing in the rainforest. It's really hard for us to come back in to what this is all about. Yeah? Is the mushroom the messenger or is that this other race? I'm a little unclear on that. Well, I mean, it's hard. I'm a little unclear on it myself. You know, I'm the kid who took the radio apart to find the little people. And I learned from that experience that, you know, I think of the mushroom as the transmitter. But it may be the alien itself. I mean, it's very hard to say. We've had this discussion before about how if you were able, well, that since 1950 we've been aware of the existence of DNA. And we already, some 40, 50 years later, whatever it is, are on the brink of the human gene sequencing project. Well, any species which could claim intelligence would, part of intelligence by definition, I would think, is knowing your complete genetic sequence. And what that places in your hands is the possibility of designing yourself. And when you take that point of view and look at the mushroom, the mushroom may have started out as a gorilla or a salamander or a coral reef or anything else. But at some point in its evolutionary history, it took conscious control of what it looks like. And so here it is. It's the perfect organism. All fungi are what are called primary decomposers. They only live on dead matter. Comparing that to vegetarianism, vegetarianism looks like an orgy of slaughter compared to this style of relating to the environment. And then, you know, it has this cobwebby structure. It touches reality so lightly, and yet it can spread through acres. It can weigh more than a sperm whale. It is so tenacious that probably the star itself would have to explode to eliminate fungi from this planet. So it's a strange contradiction of enormous endurance and strength. The spores can percolate through interstellar space, and yet, you know, it's diaphanous, ephemeral, hardly more than a cobweb. Yeah? You talked yesterday about anguishing the unspeakable, or someone used that terminology. Have you ever really thought about the story that you're telling? Can you articulate it in a circular, acausal kind of way rather than a typical story? Something about the very nature of what we're talking about seems like there's a whole other way, a deeper way to see this. We want to talk about time as if it's a line, and time sure doesn't look that way to me on the other side, and if anyone else here knows what I'm talking about. Is there some other way that we can prepare ourselves? Well, actually, the notes I made this morning for talking, in case questions didn't carry us home to Mama, was...
 had to do with this, a psychedelic cosmology. We want to talk about this happened, this caused this, this caused this. No. See, I think that what psychedelic thinking can contribute to that kind of question is the realization that time is not driven by causality. The big news is that teleology has to return to models of how reality works. What I mean by teleology is purpose. And let me explain briefly the history of this problem. When Darwin invented evolution in the 19th century, it was possible to call yourself an English intellectual and actually believe that the planet came into existence on September the 4th, 4004 B.C. That was a respectable intellectual opinion in British parlors of 1850. Darwin, the whole intellectual world was under the spell of deism, the idea that the universe was the creation of a benevolent god who was guiding it from its birth to its death. And Darwin opposed this and said, in the phenomenon of random mutation and natural selection, no plan, no purpose, no end state is being sought. And the word evolution, strangely enough, has come to mean progress. But in the 19th century, it meant the opposite of progress. Evolution meant change without progress because progress implies that you are vectoring on some kind of goal. And the idea was that nature was not vectoring on some kind of goal. It was simply a proliferation of form. And they took that to the limit in order to overthrow deism. And it probably was a necessary episode in Western intellectual history. But it is now dragging us back. We've gotten rid of God as a secular society. We don't have the benevolent god that the 19th century was laboring under. But we need to preserve this concept of purpose. And where it's coming from in secular scientific and mathematical thinking is in the domain of chaos dynamics and the concept of attractors, which are maximizable goals in the evolution of a system, but that lie forward in time. And I maintain that in order to understand what is happening on this planet, you have to begin to play with a kind of dynamical attractor notion. What has happened to us as a species, let's just pick a date, let's say a million years ago, the tractor beam of the alien latched onto us. And from that moment we have been moved inexorably through a script that has drawn us deeper and deeper and deeper into an involvement with matter, into global connectivity, into the elaboration of codes and symbols. These are all things which the animal world knows nothing of on the scale that we are involved in these things. History is the distortion of animal life that goes on for about 25,000 years before an animal species is transmogrified into something incomprehensible. The nature of the alien contact is human history. That's the footprint of the fact that ordinary biological and geological processes on this planet have been intersected by something that is coming from another dimension. And the reason it's so hard for us to see is because we're so ephemeral. We live 70 years and then we're gone, and until very recently there were no historical records. We're just beginning to put in place a picture of how weird our circumstance actually is. Human history is a phase transition of incredible brevity. It is inconceivable to think of human history meandering forward 500, 1,000, 5,000 years into the future. How can it be when we're already talking about turning ourselves into fruit flies and downloading ourselves into gold deterbium cubes buried at the heart of Copernicus or something like that? With stuff like that on the agenda, the notion that you could conceive a future 500 years of extrapolation of present trends is impossible. Yeah? I don't remember which book it was in, but it created this image of the end of time as we know it, or the end of history as we know it, and mankind's ultimate goal being this transcending and leaving the planet. It created a picture of the Earth as the womb at which we would eventually leave. I had a lot of trouble with that because it kind of made it sound like our body was like this fuel cylinder that we would eventually break away from. It would be this meeting of heads in space. We're like the image of us in these space parks watching some sort of three-dimensional bunch of money on a holograph. Meanwhile, waterfalls and the ocean and the mountains are still happening here on Earth. So I kind of got this leery kind of feel when I read that, and it was kind of like, oh, you know. So you want me to talk about that? No, I mean, I agree with you. It's something we always talk about in these get-togethers that we're coming up on some kind of a bifurcation where we're either going to have to make a choice in favor of waterfalls and pristine beaches or, you know, our electronic coral reefs that stretch from Boston to Atlanta and stuff like that. And it's very hard. It's a gnostic choice. You know, the new age, we always like to get rid of all of our differences. Well, here's one where I don't think you can cut it both ways. Are we the caretakers of the Earth? And is it our destiny to preserve all of this and enfold ourselves back into it? Or is that simply like fetal nostalgia for the womb and we're headed someplace that you can't even wrap your mind around? I don't know. I mean, I think every sane person feels that tension in their personality because the techno allure is demonic. I mean, those shiny surfaces and flickering screens, and, I mean, it has this weird sadomasochistic glitter coming off of it. That's real. You're not kidding yourself. That is really there. And yet it's coming out of us, you know, and then the preservation of nature. You can think of different scenarios ranging from the very practical. If we really see the question comes down to reason or faith, or not faith exactly, but reason or miracle. If there is not going to be a miracle, then we are in deep, deep trouble. We've talked in some of these groups about what I call the one woman, one child option. If you don't believe there's going to be a miracle, that might work because it would cut the Earth's population in half in 40 years. It would liberate women the way no rhetoric or political policy ever could. But that's a response where you still believe in management. You still believe that you are in control of where everything is headed. If, in fact, what is happening is not that we are the fructifying consequences of original sin or something like that, but that instead nature itself is undergoing some kind of crisis. In other words, we tend to assume that and take responsibility for the crisis on this planet. But it may be that this is what planets are for.
 that they seed intelligence into the universe in a process that usually leaves that planet a smoking ruin. Because the mushroom said this once to me, I was bemoaning something, and it said, you shouldn't worry, this is what it's like when a species prepares to depart for the stars. I mean, it's not a simple matter to go from picking bananas in the tropical rainforest to building something the size of Manhattan that you propose to propel at 90% of the speed of light out to Alpha at Centauri. I mean, it's just hair-raising to even contemplate this kind of thing. So it's a real question, and probably a question we won't be asked to answer, because the decision is being collectively made every hour of every day by decisions. It may be that stuff like the ozone hole, that we have already passed the fail-safe point. It's just that the news hasn't arrived on your desk yet, but that already the womb is closing behind us. Already the options are being foreshortened by continued lack of response to the crisis. As far as what psychedelics say about this, what they seem to be good for is getting various magnifications on our dilemma. You know, just where are we in the cosmic order of things? The other thing that psychedelics show is this, and science and mathematics now catch up, is the fractal nature of the way things are ordered, which means that, in reference to what was said earlier about the holographic model of memory, the fractal nature of reality means that the transcendental end state has left its trace in every subset of experience. And, you know, this is almost like a rational basis for mysticism. It means that looking for, was it Rumi, or who was it said, you know, looking for God in the cabbages, is a purely legitimate enterprise. And, in fact, God is in the cabbages and should be easily magnified and extracted therefrom. How does your, when you were talking about the alien has latched on to us and is pulling with its tractor being a long time ago, how do you relate your concept of the alien to world religion's concept of the creator, or, you know, man's karmic evolution to nirvana or samadhi? Well, I think what these religions are doing is that they are interacting with this same intuition. The grandiosity comes in the sense that I don't think we're dealing with the God who hung the stars like lamps in heaven, you know, what Milton said. That's some whole other scale. But what we're dealing with is something like the God of biology, that there is something on this planet that we have completely overlooked. I mean, look at the situation. We emerged from, you know, berry picking to photographing Europa in about a million years. Well, life has been on this planet, higher animal life, I don't just mean algae and lichens and like that, I mean higher animal life has been running around on this planet for 300 million years. So how many, you know, biology is an engine of strategies. How many peculiar byways of evolution might be pursued, explored, and then perhaps quenched on that kind of a time scale? So we assume the only kind of intelligence there can be is our kind, but then the psychedelic introduces us and then we have a limited number of choices. After you fiddle with psilocybin for a while, the question of whether or not there is an alien intelligence becomes moot. There is an alien intelligence. And then the question is, what is it? And the choices are, and maybe you can help me add more, the choices are, it is a straightforward B-movie extraterrestrial of some sort that is God knows for what reason but coming at us through this. That's one possibility. It is the guy in mind in some version of that. In other words, it's the integrated intelligence of the biome of the planet that because probably of the historical crisis is actually noticed us and is trying to twiddle our knobs in some dimension we're not even aware of. So that's it. Extraterrestrial guy in mind could be some strange technological experiment launched from the future. In other words, since these things can communicate with us, since they seem to have some kind of value system related to our problems, maybe they are human beings of some sort. Perhaps it's a time travel project in some distant century that has decided that the key screw-up occurred in the 20th century and they're going back trying to twiddle the knob. Notice that these theories have greater and lesser levels of elegance and I'm not advocating any one. Here's one that I think is interesting and mildly alarming. This is the shamanic one. That these are, that this entity, this contact, whatever it is, is somehow coming from the after world. That this is a project launched from an ecology of souls. That somehow the erasure of the boundary between the living and the dead is what is at stake here. I mean, now this is from, you know, raised as logical positivists, this is the one you would choose last. I think it's much easier to believe in meddling extraterrestrials than that, you know, Uncle Herman and Aunt Fanny are somehow reaching in from the great beyond, yeah. I've heard you say before, I'm almost certain I've heard you say before, that you can define the thing, the alien, the creature, whatever, at particular levels or dosage of hallucinogenic properties that at five, precisely five measured grams of psilocybin, so lives, there lives the pink elephant. You, I've heard you allude to the fact that not only for you is that a consistent dimension, but that for other people that you compare notes with who do consistent levels, that there are dimensions that are measurable and that the, let's now call it alien, consistently show up there. Well, yeah, that's basically right. I mean, everybody views it through the filter of their own psychology, but everybody views this room through the filter of their own psychology, and it's not that, we assume that it's not that different for each of us. Yeah, I mean, what we're talking about here is a phenomenon that contravenes reason, but that fortunately is replicatable. You know, it's not like camping in cornfields waiting for flying saucers. If you camp in the cornfield and take six dried grams, it will find you. Yes, so finally we found a causal relationship which indicates a new level of the dialogue. You see, always the dialogue before was they could fax you in the form of lights in the sky, messiahs, miracles, but you couldn't fax them. Now there is this peculiar zone that has opened up called the psychedelic zone, the psychic zone, the psychological zone, and of course we're uncertain of the status of what goes on there ontologically, so you're perfectly free to believe it was just a hallucination, or you're perfectly free to believe that it was an ambassadorial contact with an alien mind. Getting back to a couple of things and linking them together, you talk about the afterworld or the shaman's idea that it comes from a society of souls, and this is one of the possible explanations for what this causes.
 contact is. And then talking about the soul as the ultimate tool, another thing that, another idea that goes around in mystical circles is that, and even actually Carl talks about this, Carl is just a native, is that one of the most important things we can do while we're alive is develop a soul and strengthen a soul. And that this is our tool in the afterlife. And that all this atmosphere is for is that because we can't actually strengthen our soul on the other side because there's no friction, there's no positive and negative. So this is the place where we can actually develop an internal, inner, shining body that is separate from this body, but that this body is used as a tool to create that one. So that's something I wanted to put out there. And as a possibility, I don't know. Well, this would be probably a good moment to return to the gentleman's question about hypercarbolation. Yeah, I mean, it isn't only castinated. It's a persistent idea worldwide at a certain strata that what life is for is the building and stabilizing and perfecting of an after-death vehicle of some sort, a light body. Hypercarbolation. Well, hypercarbolation, in the book I wrote called True Hallucinations, my brother proposed to essentially treat all this metaphysical baffle garb as actually engineering the material for an engineering project. And he set out to emanatize the soul to actually force it to physically appear in nearby physical space as a kind of little spinning disc-shaped object which would follow you around. It would sort of be like a halo. We would enter into a world where there were two kinds of people, those who had gotten their after-death vehicle outside their body and into visible form, and those who were still working on it. And the idea being that this is a union of spirit and matter through the intercession of higher dimensional space. I mean, there's a lot of intellectual and linguistic side of hand here. Nobody knows what he's talking about. The problem is that out of such theorizing came tangible consequences. And I still think that really what we need to do now is become actually conscious of the possibility of a technological, I guess that's the word for it, undertaking to give birth to the collective soul of the species. I mean, the flying saucer, which Jung made this very clear, the flying saucer which haunts our collective imagination is a totality symbol that is in the unconscious, but it is moving toward conscious appearance. And its peculiar mercurial interfacing with the observer indicates that it is something on the borderline between the conscious and the unconscious mind. But that's a temporary situation, and conceivably this thing is moving toward us. And it vibrates with the alien, but it is in fact ourselves. And there is a kind of recurso here, where the thing we lost at the descent from Eden is actually on a collision course, coming back again. This is the idea of the archaic revival, that we can really deconstruct reality in a fairly radical way. This is not my idea, by the way. I mean, this is what alchemy turned into. And in the 16th century, people like Gerhard Dorn and Robert Flood and John Dee and Michelson de Vorghese and all of these people were on the trail of what they called the lapis, or the philosopher's stone. And it was a place where the normal either-or algebra of reality gave way to some kind of Boolean, both-and exception. And strangely enough, that strategy of mixed algebras now characterizes how quantum physics describes the base energy field of existence. Paradox cannot be eliminated from your model without sinking the model, because it becomes trivial. Yeah? We're kind of talking about the end of history, and I've listened to your tapes on the time wave, and you're writing on that. And the thing that occurs to me that this point that you're talking about, like the dwell point, could be like the birth of a new kingdom of life, like you've got the plant kingdom and the animal kingdom, and fungi is kind of thought of as a separate kingdom. But software is potentially a new kingdom of life that's really coming out of the animal kingdom. It's going to be an expression of human creativity and imagination. So that could be either part of that whole transition part, or maybe the thing that really blows people's minds apart when they realize that we've birthed this new life force potentially into the universe. Well, yes. I mean, it's not clear that it will be overt and manageable and that there it will be in the laboratory. It's that it's happening all around us. It's that we are embedding ourselves in a matrix of silicon and glass. We are actually, in the same way that free-swimming, eukaryotic bacteria turned themselves into mitochondria and powered the cell by embedding themselves in primitive gels, we are beginning to embed ourselves into a cultural membrane of some sort. And we are essentially the genetically driven components of an organometallic, self-perpetuating matrix that is, on the epigenetic level, redesigning itself all the time. It was McLuhan who said, human beings have become the genitals of machines. We exist only to improve next year's model. And that is a kind of evolution, you see. I mean, the machines, they don't change their physical form every million years. They change their physical form every 18 months because human engineers are doing this. Nine million computers a month are being linked into the global network. There's one theory of brain function that says that the higher order functions of the brain are simply emergent properties that come out of a network that has nine billion plus switching potentials in it, while our global network is quickly approaching this critical number. So what is happening is a globalizing of intelligence. New as this sounds, you know, these kinds of ideas have been around for a while. If you haven't read Teilhard de Chardin, who, you know, my god, S.J., right? And he talks about an omega point and what he calls the noosphere, the atmosphere of electronic mind that is emerging as a shell and closing the planet. Yeah. I'm sort of backtracking from your list of possible explanations. Uh-huh. Fine. And this one doesn't, I'd like to hear your feedback on it. It doesn't really sit real well with me. It's sort of cynical, a little bit materialist. But I mean, who's to say that the psychedelic experience is not just really a brain experience, a experience that really is not transcendent, but yet we are so used to a very limited way in which we experience reality in such a small section of our brain, supposedly, that it just seems so outwardly foreign that we externalize it. I mean, I'm not saying I'm biased, but just to add to the list, what do you say to that? Well, what I think the major evidence against that view is the amount of, the sheer complexity and amount of information that seems to be in there. If evolution works with some kind of economy and that species that work without economy are eliminated, then what in the world would have been the evolutionary raison d'etre of preserving this visionary function for 500 years?
 500 million years of evolution until you reach the human species. It seems to lack functional and engineering integrity as an approach. The reductionists who want to say that these drugs just perturb the brain, I don't think have taken enough of these things. It is not a mishmash that you get. What you get is order, often a more ordered and symmetrical and self-satisfying world than the one we're living in. And as far as the mystical and metaphysical people are concerned, they're always saying there's no difference between the inside and the outside until you suggest they take psychedelic drugs. Then they start raving about the necessary purity that has to be maintained and how there must be no artificial means. Well, which is it? That there's no inside and no outside? Or that these anxiety-riddled boundaries have to be maintained at all costs? The problem is meaning, and the meaning of meaning. Wasn't it F.H. Bradley who wrote a book of that title, I think? What is meaning, and then what does it mean that there is meaning? Is it simply, as Whitehead suggests, the apperception of pattern as such? Or is there eventually some kind of a metaphysics, some kind of a discernible mega-pattern in all of this? My thing is basically to raise questions and to destroy culturally contrived answers, because I think they're all horseshit. It hasn't worked. We do not know where we are in the game. We're not able to recognize the players. We've forgotten what our waitress looks like, and the whole thing is just, we're way at sea in this situation. And what culture seems to do is some kind of strategy for calming everybody down, cooking up some parcel of lies, which then everybody works with that and doesn't notice the peculiarity of it all. This is why I think psychedelics are so controversial, because they break down cultural explanations, whatever they are. And I found even with rainforest shamans that they are very aware of how far they want to go. And it's a rare personality that enjoys kicking all the supports out and just watching it all collapse into the big who-knows. But it's very edifying, because it's honest, I think. Isn't that a homological threat to those who have a vested interest in maintaining this? Well, but what's happening, you see, is who has a vested interest in maintaining these illusions? People who want to die? Is that it? At one point, defense of the status quo made sense. Now, the straightest people in the world are beginning to quake in their boots. And the people who quote-unquote run the world, they've got better information than you and I. And they leave their offices white-faced at night, because they see that capitalism is finished, because capitalism depends on an endlessly exploitable resource base to function. They have no idea what you put in place of a market-driven capitalist economy. The population thing is under control. It is out of control. To get it under control, you would have to take on the people who've run Western civilization for 1700 years, i.e., the Roman Catholic Church. Who wants to dig into that mess? The ozone depletion of the atmosphere may have already passed criticality. That may be a death sentence waiting to be served, and so forth and so on. So I don't think there is anybody... I think what we're seeing is spreading panic in the control centers of Western civilization, and that very soon, you can have a real discussion. Essentially, the Clinton thing is just a gesture in that direction. But eventually, we're going to have to have a discussion about who gets to go to the lifeboats, and who doesn't, and stuff like that. And it's all going to be very dicey, I think. Could you just talk a little bit about how society then would be informed by psychedelics, and what direction it might take, and how our present society could utilize this in a way that would be productive, and not just the perpetuation of this whole sort of Nancy Reagan, escapist philosophy, just say no type of thing? Well, our problem is that we are in denial of our circumstance. If we could actually feel the situation, everybody would immediately walk to the parking lot, get in their car, and go out enslaved to stop the agony. But we don't feel it. I mean, we see the pictures from Bosnia. We see the pictures from Somalia. We feel it to some degree. We send money. But we don't stop consuming furiously. We don't reconstruct our lives. Taking psychedelics, I think, because its primary function is to dissolve boundaries, it dissolves the boundary between you and the pain or the problem, and then you have to do something about it. Who do you propose in this society is going to distribute this stuff? I'd like to see that happen if I really would. But is it going to be a psychologist? Is it going to be a church? Or is it just somebody going to be able to buy it over the counter? I see that as a problem. I'd like to see what you're proposing. Well, I think it should be self-organized. The way to do it is to make it legal. The spores are legal. They contain no psilocybin. There should be something called the Vegetable Drug Act, which simply states no plant is illegal. Period. Just that's it. And it would all sort itself out. And the junkie could have his little opium garden, and I don't know if cokeheads could get it together enough to fill their backyard with coke. It would all sort out very, very nicely. And it's preposterous. You read that in the Middle Ages, that in 1432 in Amsterdam, a pig was hung for murder. Well, that's the kind of thing we've got going with the concept of an illegal plant. I mean, from any future enlightened point of view, they would just look back at that and say, how quaint. What a bizarre notion of reality. I liked your idea. You talked about how the legalization of these substances doesn't fit with And it made me think a lot about legalization. It made me think about making it really okay in my mind to defy the law and to defy people's morality in that regard. And I don't know if I think it's possible for it to be legal. Without a battle or without a major shift in the way things work, it seems like it's something that I need to take on myself and say. Well, I think the hope... It's a higher law than the one that's imposed upon us. The hope comes from Europe. I think America will just be shamed into legalization. Because in Europe, the drug laws are very loose. And Europe is a truly secular society. I mean, they just don't have rattlesnake handling, Christers and Branch Davidians and all. They cannot figure this stuff out. I mean, I had a German friend visit me in Hawaii last summer and I took her to the beach and she immediately whipped her top off. And then I had to explain that you couldn't do that in America. And she'd said she'd heard you couldn't do that in America, but she couldn't believe that it was actually true. And then when I, looking at her, thought what it would take to make it possible to take your top off at a public beach in America, you just realize this is a society of lost souls. I mean, this is a society...
 of the screwballs that couldn't handle the secularization of Europe, and came here to practice what they called religious freedom, which basically meant crypto-fascism on everybody else, you know. Yeah, I agree. Look, black people didn't break loose till they got their backs up. Gay people would have been forever marginalized. They're not handing rights out in this society. You have to take it. And the drug thing has just been a polite conversation for far too long, I think. It's getting a little louder. It's getting a little louder, but weasel arguments are being used. I mean, the reason cannabis is moving toward legalization is because an appeal is being made to the darkest impulses of capitalism. You could make so much money off this. Why do you care that it's a drug? What about the flip side of the rights, though, and that responsibility? I sometimes wonder, as much as we like to complain about law and structure, it seems like we also rely on that to provide certain social structures around how something would be viewed. We don't often claim the responsibility. How do you see, let's say, if drugs were legalized, how would we self-manage in a responsible way to make that occur? Well, I maintain that since alcohol and tobacco are legal, we have already proven that we can absorb the social consequences of legalizing any drug. I mean, if you can tolerate the costs and what alcohol and all that does to insurance, then heroin is going to pose no problem. The problem with the law is that when the law becomes irrational, the law loses its moral force, and so it has to be reformed. And this is, I believe, very difficult in this drug area because nobody's being straight about what's at issue. The real issue, like let's take cannabis, which is, you know, most people, whether they smoke cannabis or not, have the impression, I think, that this is a generally benign and over-discussed peril. And yet, I cannot imagine America legalizing cannabis simply because its psychological consequences are that it erodes loyalty to the work ethic. You know, people are not interested in screwing widgets on wonkles if they smoke, and contrast it to caffeine. Now, caffeine is a dangerous drug, does liver damage, is known to be implicated in a number of pathologies. And yet, every contract, every labor contract signed in the Western world enshrines the right of laborers twice a day to stop the assembly line and tank up on coffee. This is an extraordinary folk way. And why? Because caffeine is a made-to-order drug for the purposes of slave capitalism. I mean, you just scurry right back to your keyboard or your assembly line and you can do the 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. shift then without, you know, falling on your face like a normal primate would if they weren't jacked up on some alkaloid. So that's very welcome. You know, it was McLuhan who made the point, and it still hasn't been assimilated by enough people, that he said that technologies carry a hidden agenda and shape their user in ways that the user is never conscious of. And the great case that McLuhan made was print, where he said the linear and uniform nature of print created the preconditioned mindset able to accept democracy, the assembly line, the concept of the citizen. A whole bunch of modern ideas presuppose print. Well, drugs are technologies, and they shape the users in ways that the users never suspect. And our frenzied, goal-oriented, surface-obsessed society is a society of sugar, alcohol, red meat, and television. You know, I mean, television is an incredibly invasive and powerful drug. The average American watches six hours a day. Imagine if, following World War II, a drug had been introduced, that now the average American spent six hours a day absolutely loaded on this drug, doing nothing else. But because we are materialists, we don't see television as a drug. And yet, you know, your blood pools in your rear end, your brain waves fall into a measurable zone, you fixate, there is an entire set of symptoms, no less dramatic than the symptoms of smoking a bomber or honking up a line. But we don't see television that way. And the horror of television is you don't even get to have your own trip. You have somebody else's trip, sponsored by the cosmetically enhanced surfaces of products. I mean, talk about a hell drug, my God, yeah. So since it's an extreme minority of people who are using psychedelics right now on the planet, do you see this little, minute portion scattered around really having an effect, which is a constant sort of chain reaction, before it's too late to really work some change? Or is it more like small colonies of the same? Well, see, the plan, see, if it were business as usual, these psychedelic communities might not amount to anything. But I think that the world is going to get so peculiar, as the chickens come home to roost, that you'll have to take psychedelic drugs to understand what's going on. And that the people who don't will be running around like chickens with their heads cut off. Because we haven't come, you know, people yak about the apocalypse, but this is not the apocalypse. This is the garden party before the apocalypse. I mean, once it really hits, it's going to require a great deal of faith to believe that we're going to make it through it. And I think that more and more organizations, governments, governing institutions, are going to turn to the fringes for answers. Because what our circumstance is, is that history fails. Orthodoxy failed. Science failed. Capitalism failed. Reason failed. And we can't keep practicing these things, because they failed. The ship is sinking. We can't have a debate about when we'll arrive in Bermuda. We're never going to arrive in Bermuda. The boat is now sinking. So the agenda has to change. And also, these people are dying off. You know, the old control freaks, the people who have one foot in the 19th century. As to your question of whether or not it will happen fast enough, well, that's the horse race we're involved in. That's the excitement, you know. It'll be a photo finish. H.G. Wells said, History is a race between education and catastrophe. Yeah, and the other thing is Christianity took 300 years to become, you know, and it started off with different sets of people that were nurturing the Christian idea. Unfortunately, the Roman Catholic effect won, but it could be the same thing. You start these little sort of copyclatches of peyote takers that just... Well, and Christianity was able to do that in a world where information moved at the speed of a horse's gallop. So, you know, there's an enormous psychedelic religion flourishing in Brazil right now that just cannot convert people fast enough. It's missionarizing the United States. Shamanism. But I think the reason I called my second book The Archaic Revival is because I think this is the overarching metaphor of the 20th century, that the 19th century was the gentleman's century, the white gentleman, when it all worked. Commerce flourished. Cities were built. The poor knew their place. Brown people held their position. And the 20th century has been all about confronting the bankruptcy of all of that.
 that, and from the time of surrealism and Freud and Jung and Dada right through to rave music and jazz and rock and roll and abstract expressionism, these are all archaic impulses. The 19th century is all about realism, materialism, and defined social structures. The 20th century deconstructs the visual image, deconstructs the idea of simple location. We have body piercing, we have trance dancing, fire walking, all of these things are impulses to return to the primitive, and what it means is that in the aura of the realization that history has failed, we're going back to an earlier model. This is what societies do when they get in trouble. We forget because we're the inheritors of it, but when medieval Christianity essentially got a flat tire by having 70 popes in 25 years, none of them died a natural death, that clued people to the idea that there was something wrong with Christian idealism, and the Renaissance capitalists, Italian city-state entrepreneurs, invented classicism. Classicism, meaning a society based on the ideals of Greece and Rome, was a science fiction option at that point. Greece and Rome had been buried in the ground for 1500 years, and yet they dug it up, they dug up the buildings, they dug up the manuscripts, they dug it all up, and they said, this is how people should live, and we'll found classicism, and we will be the patrons of the arts, and we will undertake vast architectural undertakings, and so forth and so on. And it worked. It set a model for society, Roman law, Greek aesthetics, clear into the middle of the 19th century, when then the full consequences of the Industrial Reformation created a kind of new serfdom of some sort. Now, we require such a radical new paradigm that we have to reach outside the domain of history entirely. And the archaic then, which is a model of nomadism, of very little material culture, of hedonism, a lot of focus on sexuality, sensuality, body adornment, this sort of thing, and an information-based culture ruled by magic. In the case of the archaic, it was natural magic. In our case, it will be the technological magic of electromagnetic technology. You know, a global tribe. McLuhan was right. I mean, McLuhan is given zilch credit. He understood all of this stuff. He said all of this by 1965. The people who dismissed him never understood him, I'm quite convinced. Yeah. What role do you think the Munchers will play in this global electronic network? Well, I think that part of what we're on the brink of is a technological innovation, but I think also a rewiring of the human organism. And that what psilocybin is about is it's a catalyst for language production and evolution. And that the future evolution of language involves language being shifted into the visual domain. Notice how more visual reality is becoming, how icon-driven the computer interface is, and stuff like this. I think that psychedelics hold the way toward a kind of telepathy. Not a telepathy of you hear my thoughts, but a telepathy of I see what you mean. This would erode boundaries tremendously. I mean, it's astonishing to think that our global civilization is linked together by nothing more than small mouth noises and the electronic transduction of saying. I mean, small mouth noises are a very, very crude way to communicate the kind of complexity that our scene requires. The great thing about psychedelics is whether these personalities are realized or less than realized is that you don't need them. You know, the realized ones can be your friends, but the great thing about the psychedelic enterprise is that it's democratic and self-directed. And actually, my experience is that if you really take high doses, it's hard to be a rat. You have to have incredible defenses to be a real rat and take real high doses. And what it means is sooner or later it will ambush you in some tremendously unpleasant way, and then you will get straight. I think it's tremendously exciting because it's a chance to take control of the project of defining one's own authenticity. And I don't really, the idea of the guide, or I'm glad that that concept has given way to the idea of the sitter, because the sitter gets it much better. What the sitter is there to do is to keep you from rolling off the bed and to tell you that it's going to be all right, even though the sitter may have lost all confidence that it will ever be all right. And they are guiding you nowhere, because they haven't the faintest idea where you are. You know, they're just there to reassure. Guided trips are as often ambiguous, I think, as positive. I know a guy who takes mushrooms fairly often, and he always says to me, he says, each time I take it, my goal is to stand more. And what he means is that there's no bottom to it, and it will reveal literally as much as you can tolerate. And you can get into a lock with it where you say, show me what you really are. Show me what you really are for yourself. And instantly, the cheerful scenarios of machine elves dancing mice and little candies spinning against black backgrounds, that's like suspended. And there's this organ tone, like from the Bach B Minor Mass, and these black velvet curtains begin to lift. And after about 15 seconds of that, you say, that's enough, thank you, of what you really are for yourself. Because you realize it is willing to comply with the request, but your mind can't handle it. It is coming at you through a series of veils. It is trying to be reassuring. I mean, you're saying, my God, it's an alien from the heart of the galaxy, and what it's trying to pass as is your next door neighbor. Because if it were ever to reveal the true dimensions of its alienness, you would probably vaporize in the presence of such peculiarity. Death by astonishment. We want to avoid that at all costs. Stories abound. I mean, stories upon stories, amazing stories. And once you collect enough of them, you start collecting them thinking that there's going to be a pattern where you will learn something. Eventually, you realize these stories are just designed to befuddle and lead you astray. I mean, you cannot tell what is going on. Instead of putting a book together of the stories, you probably would more than anything. Yeah, I've considered it great trip stories. Trading with the aliens. Some of you may know a wonderful little story by Clifford Simek. I was talking to somebody about this recently. It was about a man who goes to a garage sale, and he buys an oak roll-top desk. And he gets it home, and he discovers that in one... He just notices, actually, that in one corner of this desk, there's what looks like an ivory dot, an inlay of ivory. And he then has this desk, and after a couple of months, he finds this thing on this dot, which he doesn't know what it is. It's just some little thing. He doesn't care.
 can't figure it out. And he discovers, to make a long story short, that if he will put something on this dot, it will be traded. And so he puts a paperclip and he gets a something or other, and then he puts a dime and he gets something else every 24 hours, and he begins trading through this alien trader. They are meme traders, these creatures from hyperspace. And the trick is to get them to trade something that's very useful to you and valueless to them. I grew up in western Colorado, and up above 9,000 or 10,000 feet in the old mining camps, there are what are called pack rats. And what pack rats are about is they steal stuff. They steal little things, but they always leave something. They are trader rats. They don't actually steal. And there are many stories about people getting in league with a pack rat and trading seven-up bottle caps for gold nuggets that were hidden in the walls, that because of these old mining towns, these rats had been stealing from the bar tills of a century ago. And the strange thing is, when you trade with a pack rat, you have to discern its psychology, because it may trade seven-up bottle caps for gold nuggets, but if you switch to dimes, it will switch to dead bees, and they're no good to you. So you have to keep negotiating, you see, to get the good. Isn't this an example of your language that you have in mind? Yeah, that's right. That's right. Exactly. Although somebody pointed out to me, it was another one of these torpedoes, unexpected, that print is visible language. That print is the condensation of sound. It's just that it requires a medium. I was wondering, in view of what you pointed out about some of the liabilities of asking to reveal one's deepest, darkest self, or purest being, and I'm wondering if you could share some of your thoughts about setting an agenda for a trip and entering into a dialogue with this alien, as opposed to perhaps being more passive and just allowing this emergence without any conscious direction, to the extent that that's possible. I tend to be very passive. I sense immense power and potential in these states, and I'm frankly afraid of it. I mean, I like to watch, that's my bit, and I have no desire to seize the levers and start pulling and pushing buttons. When I was younger, we messed around in more radical ways and had experiences that really, I felt like, threatened our sanity because you just couldn't believe what was going on. I don't set agendas. Some people do that. What I do do is I talk to it, and I ask it to show itself. And I do think you have to approach the thing. It is shy, or it's tasteful. It's hard to figure out which. But in any case, it will not speak to you unless spoken to. You can go through an eight hour trip, and it will never say a word, because you never said a word. And you have to say to it, show yourself. Does it hurt to verbalize that? It doesn't hurt to verbalize it. I mean, I think of it in my mind. I sort of, I invoke it, but it's also somewhat like a seduction. I mean, you say, come out, show yourself, be beautiful, and then this thing literally, almost like a turmoil in the air, and they condense, and then they do show themselves. But unless invited, they won't do that. Now in DMT, that isn't true. They're uninvited. I mean, you're in their domain. You're in Elfland Grand Central Station, and everybody's trying to get on the train to Westport, and you're just there, you know, in the middle of this crazy situation. Yeah? What do you consider regular use? I don't know. I think that's really a hard thing to say. I mean, I know people who say DMT is their favorite drug, and the last time they took it was 67. I mean, we're not talking abuse here. I think psilocybin three or four times a year definitely means that you are a psychedelic person, for sure. It definitely means that your every waking moment is informed and transformed by your relationship to this stuff. It doesn't take very much, because it's a way of thinking. I admire people who can do it a lot and not go off the deep end, because what I find is, basically what we talk about in these workshops is what I would call the generic psychedelic experience. It lasts four to eight hours. There are all kinds of crazy hallucinations, insights, tears, laughter, self-affirmation. Then it goes away. That's the generic psychedelic trip. But if you start pushing, then you get to be Columbus. You know, if you, for instance, take psilocybin every 72 hours for 10 days, you will cure in the marketplace. You will preach to the masses. You will become so convinced of dogmas and points of view so peculiar that it will hand your friends a crisis. I mean, I've been there. And so the trick is to understand when you need to chill, because it just starts opening ahead of you. Like when we would take it in the Amazon, one of the things that we noted and talked about and was actually a moment of concern was, in every psilocybin trip in the Amazon, there would come this moment where you would realize that the jungle was friendly and that that's where you belonged. And there was this impulse to just take your clothes off and walk into it. And with perfect confidence, I could survive. It would take care of me. It is not threatening. It is not unfriendly. It loves me. I don't know whether that's true. I don't know what would happen to you when you came down. I mean, there are stories of people not on psilocybin who walked into the jungle and were mad from fly bites 12 hours later and basically had to be shot like dogs in the best Colombian fashion. So this is a very intense perception that you just don't know what to make of. Is it true? Could one somehow, sustained by psychedelics, walk into that and survive or not? There's people, I think, that do that without psychedelics. Some of these people that are asking to have original skills trips, they could definitely. You mean white people? But they've trained themselves. They've hardened their bodies and they've learned how to make fire and how to get water from plants. And to do it just on the spur of the moment, I don't know how long you'd last out there. Would you say something to compare LSD and psilocybin? Well, psilocybin is much more visual. LSD is more psychoanalytical, therapeutic, personal in some way. It may be more efficient at personality work, you know, reconstruction and overcoming trauma or phobia or something like that. Psilocybin is largely visual and spectacularly so. That's what distinguishes the tryptamine hallucinogens, is the ease with which they elicit really beautiful and complex hallucinations. I mean, people, straight scientists who write about what they call hallucination are really writing about what is technically called hypnagogia, which means the trivial hallucinations on the edge of sleep, you know, the spinning wheels, the moving grids of color, the dancing mice, that sort of thing. Psychedelic hallucinations are visionary operas of some sort. I mean, they are tremendous. They're more visually dramatic than any film experience.
 experience or experience in the real world that you could have. There's no very good explanation for what that's all about. In your trial and error of getting to five grams of mushrooms, did you, have you, have you gotten to ten grams and that was too much or is it, or have you built up to that and that's, that's enough? Ten grams is too much for me. I mean I, people have different reactions to it. I think if it gets too, if the episodes of unenglishability are too prolonged, then you need to back the dose down, you know, because it just doesn't make any sense. It's also the power of it. I mean, my God, when you overdose on psilocybin, it's like an asteroid struck the planet or something. It's very hard to convince yourself that it's confined between your ears. Or like, you know, everything from Las Vegas West just was vaporized. Well, I think we should knock off. You might want to talk about the copyright of genetic, copywriting of genetic coding. I don't know if you've heard of Monsanto and DuPont. They're getting into agribusiness. They go off to the mountains of the Andes and solicit the indigenous cultures to provide them with their potato stock. Then they go back and dissect the genetic code and copyright it. They happen to catch a farmer in Idaho growing the same potato they consume because they hold the copyright on that code. Well, yeah, I mean this is a very complicated issue. It isn't necessarily of interest to this group. It's of interest to me because I deal with the question of endangered species and stuff like that. This question of what shall we give the rainforest people for the drugs and medicines that we take out is a real tricky question because say I go to the Amazon and I bring back a plant and I am able to vegetatively propagate this plant into a crop of some sort. Well, now all I took from the Amazon was one plant, which God knows there's plenty of there, but also the knowledge of the people because inevitably you learn this stuff from informants. There's very little original botanizing of any consequence in the Amazon. And there's been a lot of debate among pharmaceutical companies and conservation organizations as to what should we give back to these cultures. And of course pharmaceutical companies think in terms, even the ones that are well-motivated and generous, think in terms of money and medicine. Well, money they don't need. Money will destroy the culture and medicine seems a disingenuous thing to give them since the premise was in the first place that their medicine was better than your medicine. I don't know what should be done about this. I do know in practical terms I have seen whole scenes go to hell over something as simple as an outboard motor. I mean an outboard motor brings whores and alcohol days closer to an upriver village. And so what favor are you doing, these people, by dropping 110 horsepower Evinrude onto the hefe of the village? Really I don't know if there's any, the biggest favor we could do them is to never show up in the first place. But that would defeat our goal, our goal meaning the pharmaceutical goal of extracting drugs from the rainforest, which is not an unknowable goal. I mean after all if you're trying to cure AIDS or TB or shrink tumors, that's not exactly a mission of rape and destruction. But it can turn into rape and destruction depending on how it's prosecuted. Does that... The drugs aren't prepared the way they're natively prepared. You know, I mean, if you're going to start preparing drugs by extracting supposed active ingredients, then you're losing the synergism, you're losing the life of the history that's there too. Yeah, and you're losing a connection to the morphogenetic field if you believe morphogenetic fields exist. You're losing the induction ritual that may be connected to the drugs. That's right, that's right. I mean, but even on your own terms, you see, on your own terms you're taking away what you need because if you have a materialist view of medicine, then really all you need is the substance. Well, this is this Sheldrakean idea that things long in existence have a kind of momentum to perpetuate themselves that things that are very recently created lack. It's not a scientifically creditable notion, but Rupert's been working for many years to show that an idea like this is necessary to solve some of the problems of modern biology. Do you all understand the concept? It's slippery, but fairly simple. It's that it can be simply stated by saying once something happens, it's easier for it to happen again anywhere in the universe. And it leads to somewhat magical expectations in the realm of experimentation. In other words, if you design a maze of some sort that has never existed before and you teach rats in Canada to run this maze and they get very good at it, then when you go to Australia to teach rats to run the same maze, they should learn faster. And believe it or not, there is some evidence for this effect. A very interesting experiment was done a couple of years ago where a computer was programmed with Hebrew, programmed to generate three-letter sequences of Hebrew words. Now, some of these, I'm sorry, three-letter sequences of Hebrew letters, and some of these sequences were Hebrew words, including words which occur in the Torah and consequently have been read by devout Jews since Abraham. And some were simply random combination of Hebrew letters that meant nothing. And then what they did is they, I think, used a Korean population, people who had absolutely no empathy or familiarity with Hebrew, and they would flash these three-letter sequences on a television screen and you would be asked, A, to guess whether it was a word or nonsense. And then, B, you were asked to guess if you thought it was a word, what the word meant. And then, C, you were asked to rate the confidence of your guess between 1 and 10. And what they discovered was none of these Korean people could guess the meaning of the Hebrew words. But when confronted with a real word in Hebrew, they had high confidence that that was what it was. And so, you see, this seems to imply that the Hebrew words that had been said by millions and millions of Jews over time had a field, a morphogenetic field around them that the purely arbitrary stuff didn't. And then other experiments have been done, you know, with nursery rhymes versus rhymes that were just made up by a poet a week ago. I actually thought of an experiment which I thought would settle it once and for all because I noticed my publicist, I mean, I resist technology, believe it or not, but my publicist finally forced me to get call waiting. Well, so then I noticed that the telephone would be silent for hours. Then it rings. You pick it up, you start talking to somebody, and immediately the call waiting thing starts beeping. And it's clear that a telephone call in progress attracts other telephone calls. Well, my notion was you could create a computer system to monitor an office building where hundreds of people were getting calls and making calls and see if in fact ordinary statistical expectations are violated because I think it's uncanny. I mean, I go away to Esalen on a weekend like this and I will go home and there will be 30 messages on the phone machine. And then when I listen to them, some of them will be no longer than 15 or 20 seconds and I can hear the call waiting on the message machine as the person is leaving the message.
 So I can't be receiving 3,500 calls a day. So it must be that the act of a telephone call in progress is a magnet for another telephone call. That's morphogenetic resonance. So don't pick up, call again. Yeah, right. Did you intend to discuss your current thinking about the current today, about the Eschaton philosophy? And if you were, what I'm really interested in is whether we're talking about everything from Amazon people to this morning ourselves and how people relate to the experience. What's the point of it all if you're still convinced that this is a 20-year cycle before the entire universe that we know heads into a bubble? Well, I think that if your hypothesis is that a universe of 20 billion years plus age is about to go bazingo in 20 years, you should probably prepare a fallback position just in case it goes awry. I've sort of talked around this because I didn't know at what point we wanted to really engage it. Because I talked about the condensation of the imagination as a physical object and the philosopher's stone as an attractor for the historical process. And I talked about this alien force, the tractor beam that reaches into our species and begins sculpting us in its image, and that's where we are now. All of this leads toward the conclusion, I think, that biology is being drawn out of matter and that this is not some kind of process that goes on hundreds of thousands or millions of years in the future, that history is actually ending within our lifetime. I mean, it sounds silly in a way to say it, but based on what will come this evening, maybe not so silly. You can actually calculate the rate of closure. You can actually figure out the kind of acceleration in which we're involved in. And it leads to the conclusion that history has only a very little bit more to run. That's, in a sense, realists know this but deny the implication. I mean, we're running out of everything. That's always a sure sign that the party is over. You know? When the liquor's gone, when the hors d'oeuvres are munched, when the buffet table is wreckage, the party is over. It's time to go home, folks. Go get your hats and coats, call your cabs, and do your host a favor. And that's where we are. It's impossible to imagine history continuing for centuries, and given the rate of acceleration, it doesn't appear that that's going to happen. The only question is, is it extinction? Is that what it is? Or is it transformation? And I choose to believe it's transformation because the evidence of the psychedelics seems to support that. I can't, I mean, I guess I can't stress enough my sense that history is anomalous, that there's no way to get used to it, and that it represents a phase transition. It's an extraordinary emergency circumstance. It only lasts, tops, 25,000 years, and really the intense part is the last 5 or 6,000 years. I mean, if you go back 6,000 years, we're talking 4,000 B.C. The pyramids weren't built yet. Nothing familiar was in place in 4,000 B.C. You know, there's a tendency in occult thinking to fiddle with the dating because occultists have inherited, without sophisticated examination, the Renaissance's belief that the older it is, the better it is. And, you know, enthusiasts of Atlantis want to place it 50,000 years in the past and Lemuria 100,000 years. This is all nonsense. The miracle of our predicament is not how long everything has been in place, but how brief it all has been. The whole thing has come into being since yesterday. I mean, the people who built the pyramids are, what, 1,500 generations in the past? Less. Less. Probably more like 600 generations in the past. So the emergence of technology codes, high culture, is all very, very sudden. And this seems to be... I think it's a phenomenon which could be elevated to the level of a general rule about reality that each stage of cosmic development happens much quicker than the stage which preceded it. So after the initial Big Bang, you know, there was a long, long period of basically just churning physical chemistry. Not even physical chemistry, but an atomic plasma. There were no elements. There were only electrons. Later, hydrogen and helium formed and could aggregate into stars. Then a new property emerged. In the center of these large masses of helium, fusion began to take place because the pressure and temperature went so high. Well, fusion cooked out heavier elements like iron and carbon, which became the basis then for a whole new kind of reality, molecular existence, and then organomolecular existence based on long-chain polymers, based on carbon. Once life emerged, the tempo really begins to pick up. Change is now coming on a scale of once every few million years. Once you get higher animals, change is even more accelerated. Once you have languages and culture, change takes an exponential leap forward, and the main characteristic of our culture is phenomenally accelerated change. So much change that when you take this curve of acceleration and plot its future vector, you discover that within 50 years we will release more energy than there is in the solar system, travel faster than light, so forth and so on. Well, if you assume these things are impossible, then it means we're hitting the limit. We're approaching the limit. Yeah? Singularities in relation to your theory? Yeah. Every vector at the end of time is a perfect example of a singularity. And, in fact, good question. It seems that... First of all, what is a singularity? A singularity is a place where the rules are broken. A miracle is a singularity. And strangely enough, it turns out to be very hard to model the universe without resorting to a singularity or several. A few years ago, Stephen Hawking, who has incredible press, I must say, Stephen Hawking hypothesized the existence of what he called mini black holes. He thought that black holes left over from the early birth of the universe had evaporated so much matter off their surfaces that they might be now down to the size of a few centimeters in diameter. Well, when they asked him to calculate how many of these mini black holes there are in the universe, they came up with a number like 14 high 11. Well, if every one of those black holes has a singularity in the center of it, that's a hell of a lot of singularities. What kind of a theory is it that allows for 14 high 11 exceptions to its rule? That there are exceptions to the rule. Well, that's a fishy way. You know, that's a way of wiggling out of it. Straight science tries to do it with just one singularity. Essentially, the position of ordinary science is give us one free...
 miracle. And then we can explain everything. And that one free miracle is, uh, the idea that the universe sprang from an area considerably smaller than a gnat's eyebrow, uh, for no reason, in a single moment. And if you believe that, then all the rest flows quite naturally. Notice, however, that whatever you think about this idea, it's the limit case for credulity. Do you understand what I mean? I mean you cannot think of a more unlikely proposition. It's almost like the, the unlikeliest of all propositions. I defy anyone to dream up a position less intuitively compelling than that one, and yet that's where they start from, you see. So what I say is, okay, if science gets one free singularity, then it, then in the game of hypothesis building, it must be that each player is dealt one singularity chip at the beginning, and I choose to play mine at the end and say, it's highly unlikely to my mind that a singularity would spring from an absolute nothingness. I mean, that seems to me the least fruitful environment to seek a singularity of this type. Far more likely, if singularities exist at all, that they would exist in a domain of complex energies, molecular bonds, chemical bonds, electromagnetic radiation, hard radiation, languages, biological systems, membranes, gels, liquid crystals, and so forth. So in other words, the kind of stew of phenomena that our present cosmos represents, who can say what could arise out of this? I mean, if you can get people, you could get anything, it seems to me. So rather than view the universe as the shockwave of an initial explosion spreading out through the dimensions, why not place the singularity as a chaotic attractor at the end of the life of the universe, and see all processes as drawn toward it, rather than pushed away from it? Drawn toward it, complexified, interleaved, folded, mixed, and connected in many, many exotic ways. And that's what this eschaton object is. I mean, it's something which we anticipate through technology. It's something we are building out of ourselves, you know. The grand work of history is the condensation and concrescence of the visible soul. But in the same way that alchemists are like catalysts to natural processes, that was the idea, see, that gold and precious metals grew in the earth, and that alchemists were not doing anything unnatural. They were simply really speeding up time. Well, in that same way, what we are doing is catalyzing the emergence of a process that nature would otherwise ultimately deliver at some yet more distant time. We're like an enzyme in the universal mix of being. And what the eschaton is, is pointless to speculate upon, because it is literally below the event horizon of rational apprehendability. That means we're too stupid to know what it is. But when we look east, the sky is touched with the rosy blush of dawn. But the surface of the solar disk of the singularity has not yet come above the horizon. However, in the next 20 years, I think this will happen. I mean, I will abandon this theory long before we reach 2012, if it doesn't begin to gain power as a meme in society. Because one of the things the mushroom told me that I found to be true, it's interesting, it said to me, nothing is unannounced. There is no such thing as a surprise. Everything is preceded by the ghost of its appearance. And if you're sensitive to that, you know, you can't be taken by surprise. That's part of the nature of a fractal cosmos, is that nothing is utterly unannounced. How could it be, since everything is distributed through the matrix? You're saying that this is a different notion than history? You're from history from the very beginning, or? Yeah, that history is in a series of approximations of the final singularity. And that's what all these religions are. They're people's best guess, given their cultural circumstance and historical angle of regarding, their best guess as to what the singularity is. Yeah? Well, the only thing I share in common with the Maya is that we both did mushrooms. So it's sort of like, is it that there's a barcode in there? That no matter where and when, in all of space and time, you take the mushroom, you come to the conclusion that something very important is going to happen on December 22nd, 2012. The Mayan calendar is a real puzzle. Not the well-known details of it, although to speak of any detail of the Mayan calendar as well-known is maybe specious. But see, the strange thing about the Mayan calendar, it's about a 4,385 year, or 5,485 year cycle with many sub-cycles in it. It begins on a slow Tuesday in August, and it ends on a winter solstice. A very important winter solstice. A winter solstice when the heliacal rising of the sun is eclipsing the galactic center. That seems to imply that the Mayans, that the Maya did not establish the beginning of their calendar and count forward. They established the end date and counted backward to establish the beginning. And there's argument among astronomers as to whether this is even possible for people at that level of culture to do. There are a number of these astronomical mysteries around, like the Dogon tribe in Africa who, before the era of telescopes, cheerfully informed astronomers that the star Sirius, which is 10 light years away, had a companion too faint to be seen by the naked eye, and that it had a 50-year orbit around Sirius Prime. This is true. How did they know that? And they go further. They also claim a third companion, Sirius C, which has to this day not yet been detected, if it is detected by long-base interferometry or some other that speckling technique. Well, if Sirius C comes into focus, a lot of people will have to come to terms with the question of how did the Dogon get this. However, there are odd examples of what appear to be unbelievably unlikely coincidences or good guesses. For example, Jonathan Swift wrote Gulliver's Travels, and he describes in there the presence of two moons around Mars and their relative size and orbital periods 70 years before William Herschel observed these objects through the telescope. And nobody knows, you know, was it just an incredibly lucky guess or what was going on there. Yeah. No, I think I tend to be nervous about the extraterrestrial hypothesis because I think I believe in extraterrestrials, but I believe that real extraterrestrials are so peculiar that the job is to recognize them, you know. No, I think that not the Chinese because the
 Evidence seems to point to the fact that the I Ching was actually composed in central southern China somewhere by a pre-Zhou people. But I think that these people had a technique, perhaps analogous to a yogic technique, perhaps analogous to the stilling of the heart techniques, which are yogas that suppress physiological functioning and that they were able to look into organism and there, looking into their own bodies with a completely different epistemic tool kit than we have, they saw flux. And they watched, perhaps for a thousand years, you know, and tried to model this flux. And they finally realized that there were myriads of elements in this flux, but not an infinite number of elements, and that all of the structure of the flux could in fact be reduced to 64 elements, which they then created a symbolical notation system for, which we call hexagrams. In other words, in the same way that we, with our obsession with matter, have discovered and satisfied ourselves that it only requires, what is it now, 108 elements to create all material phenomena and all molecular configurations, they discovered that there are 64 elements necessary to produce all varieties of temporal situation. There is a, it is no coincidence that the numbers which run the I Ching, 64, 6, 4, cube of 8, so forth and so on, that all of those numbers are the same numbers that are necessary to describe the functioning of DNA. I mean, you can perfectly model the DNA using the I Ching, not only the 64 codons that code for protein, but templating, replication, so forth and so on. All the functions of DNA can be modeled very cleanly using the I Ching. So really what it is, is it's a calculus of biological necessity. And we, as creatures made of DNA, then find that this calculus of biological necessity functions for us like magic, because it describes the matrix in which we are in fact embedded and with which we must come to terms. That's why throwing the I Ching, you know, even though I think that's a completely corrupted use of it, still it is like dropping a dipstick into the flow of a river and then pulling it out and taking a depth measurement. It's something like that. Yeah. I was wondering if some of the things we're seeing manifest now are perhaps reverberations of this event which is approaching, and I was wondering if crop circles might fit into that sometimes. Well, I think that, well, when pressed, I guess, I think that all phenomena are reverberations and in a sense pre-echoes. Is that a preco? I'm not sure. Of the eschaton. The eschaton, I mean, many of you have heard me make this metaphor. It's like one of those mirrored bar balls in a disco. It reflects its surround. The essence of the eschaton is impossible to discern because its surface is mirrored. So when you look at the eschaton, what you see, strangely enough, is your own face. And religions and hysterias of various sorts are particularly strong incidences of reflection of the eschaton. This thing which happened in Waco, Texas, was just fascinating because it was a real cognitive dissonance. It made no sense to most people. And yet, obviously, to the people inside the metaphor, it made perfect sense. I think we will see more and more of this kind of thing and that, in fact, we need to guard against it. Prophets of all sorts will arise in the last days. Christianity taught this in an attempt to cover its own ass, not realizing that it is one of these cults which arise in the last days. The whole thing about the Christos, stripped of all the mumbo-jumbo, what this is about is the mystery of the resurrection. The idea that Christ was somehow involved in some kind of crypto-biological transformation that was necessary in order to unlock the doors of paradise which had been slammed shut with the fall of Adam. And I find Christianity fascinating. I don't believe a word of it because I don't think Christian theologians understand what they're looking at. But what they're looking at is the closest thing to the eschaton that we ever had. But the conclusions are all wrong. There's an amazing passage in, I think it's Luke, it's the morning after the entombment of Christ and the three Marys, Mary the mother of James, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of Christ, go to the tomb and Christ is there standing beside the rolled away stone. And one of these women starts toward him and he says, go read it, it's right there, he says, touch me not, woman, for I am not yet fully of the nature of the Father. Well you just wonder what in the world is going on here. He is alive, he is resurrected, he has overcome death, but he says, touch me not, I am not yet fully of the nature of the Father. And what it implies is a process of some sort. Something is happening. He is hypercarbolating, is what is happening. And the hypercarbolation is not yet complete. It was a near miss. And if you read the whole thing from that light, it's clear that the people involved could not understand what was happening. So the picture, what you get here is the picture of somebody not fully in command of their own mojo, you know, and not themselves completely understanding what is going on. And I think that every religious teacher is a sense of victim of eschatonic precursive reflectivity. And a David Koresh, it's a mess, it's a very distorted and twisted kind of reflection. A Christ, a Buddha, a Mohammed, a slightly cleaner shot at what it is, but nevertheless horribly distorted and misunderstood by historical contextuality. Yeah. I was wondering if the study of some of the phenomena happening in the crop fields in England might shed some light on the form and shape of the eschaton. Well I think that there will be more and more of these anomalies. The flying saucer is an interesting anomaly. The flying saucer is clearly the ghost of the eschaton. It's, I mean, our unconscious mind, the skies of this planet, are haunted by the image of a spinning silvery disk that has eternity and the aliens and the mysteries of existence locked inside of it. The appearance of the flying saucers in 47, I mean, the modern era of flying saucers, to my mind, indicates closure with this eschatonic moment. But as we get closer to this coincidencia positorum, things will get wackier and rational analysis will fail. I think that the crop circles are a good example of this. If it is not a hoax, and this is a huge if, because there are things about the crop circles that just stink to high heaven. I mean, it is so...
  these meters tell you that the voltage flowing through the line is between three and five volts. One voltmeter on this line tells you that 8,000 volts are flowing through the line. Now, what do you do if you're a scientist? You throw out that value. You say, well, that can't possibly be true. All the other meters metered within a certain narrow range, this one meter is broken. Get rid of it. Now, think of each of us as meters, metering reality. Millions of us, all reporting, no big deal, no big deal. Then comes one person. They say that there's a 1,000 ton beryllium ship populated by little gray men who want to give you a proctological examination in the middle of the night. Now, what do we do? We don't throw them out. We put them on national TV and make a movie about it and hold conferences and try and figure out, how could this be? I'm, I, I... But the same thing could be said about the very foundation of everything we talk about. No, because psychedelic experiences are repeatable on demand. That's the great difference. These phenomena which just come and go and leave you jaw hanging in the wind, since you can't control the confrontation, you don't know what you've got. I, with psychedelics, you know, you can see elves twice a day, on schedule. And the, the people don't, the people who find this assertion disconcerting don't want to hear about it. But it's in fact true. The drugs, at last, give us a handle on the other, where we can deal with it, rather than wait for it to occur. With large, unbiased populations. You mean that they get elves? You mean people who've been contaminated by Terrence McKenna rats? I've read your books and I've seen elves and... Well, do you think you saw elves because you read my books? I don't know. Well, what do you think? I think I don't know. Uh-huh. Well, I didn't read my books when I saw elves. I just, it was on the natch. I, I think that I spread the, the elf meme. I make it legitimate to report elves. But that I think people were seeing elves before. Uh, it's a difficult thing because it's a mental phenomenon, you know? I mean, we can't lug a camera in there. Although, with virtual reality and sufficient money, we could set out to create a virtual version of one person's trip, and once they said, yes, that's it, 100%, you got it, then we would bring somebody else in and put the helmet on them and say, is this what your trip was like? And please critique and modify the contents of this virtual reality. I think this is, that virtual reality is going to be a very powerful tool for exploring pharmacological states because at last, we are going to be able to compare the contents of our own minds through something a little more fine-tuned than verbal language. Basically, my method has been a what-can-you-show-me method. And I know that there are these, you know, this particular style of refined English womanhood that seems at home with the fairies of the garden. Uh, the Dutch. The things I encounter that I call elves or gnomes, it's just a gloss. I mean, they're small and they have the archetype. They, they're more like leprechauns, and this maybe raises a racial issue. Uh, and they, they make things, and they live in domed spaces. And you know, the mythology of elves is that they live under hills and they're master craftsmen, makers of jewelry and machines and stuff like that. That is exactly the deal. And they're, and they're dead souls is what they are. Interestingly, the whole notion of fairyland is, uh, when St. Patrick arrived in Ireland to convert the pagan Irish to Christianity, they were practicing what is called the fairy faith. They believed in, in little people. They believed they were the souls of the departed. They believed they were everywhere around us, and they believed that certain people who had the eye could see these fairies. And they believed this with such conviction that Patrick quickly realized that he was not going to get anywhere converting the Irish unless he made a place for this phenomenon. So he invented purgatory. Purgatory was invented by St. Patrick. It was not church doctrine before that time. And he then very success, and if you are not Catholic or don't truck in this domain, you may not know, what purgatory is, is a place exactly like hell, except you eventually get out. And, and it's where you do penance for your sins. Well, he was so successful converting the pagan Irish with this concept that when word reached the Holy See, the Vatican, uh, it was made church dogma, and then it was very successfully used to convert the pagan Slavs, who also had a belief in a kind of fairyland. Uh, so I don't know what this thing about dead souls is puzzling to me. It, it, it even with my predilection for the peculiar and the psychedelic, I find it hard to completely embrace the notion that these are ancestors alive in some other dimension. But in some ways, that is the most conservative explanation. After all, if you believe they're extraterrestrials who came from the stars, then you're supposing and hypothesizing all kinds of things. Since they are interested in human beings, since they can converse with human beings, since they seem to know our boundaries and limitations, they must be some kind of human being. And then the choices are they are a prenatal form of existence. In other words, souls that never incarnated into a body and are like up there waiting for the stork or something. Uh, or they are some future state of humanity where apparently we no longer have bodies and we've changed ourselves into self-dribbling jeweled basketballs for God knows what reason. Or, uh, they are post-life forms. They are people who once walked the earth as you and I do, but have gone beyond into this other circumstance. One of the things that is to me almost as puzzling as the elfin nature of the DMT encounter is that after you've been in there four or five times, and it takes a while because at first it's just absolute shock and disbelief. I mean, you bring very little out of it. You're just appalled and that's about all you can say about it. But after a while, I realized, uh, that the motif of the DMT encounter, and I guess I should describe it briefly. When you burst into the DMT space, you have the impression that you're in a domed space, approximately the size of the length of this room, but round with a somewhat lower ceiling, indirectly lit, warm, comfortable. And the moment you get your bearings, they're there. In fact, as you break into that space, they cheer. And some of you may know that song by the Pink Floyd from years ago, the gnomes have learned a new way to say hooray. So you break into this space. They scream their greeting. And while you're just trying to get oriented, they come bounding forward, somewhat like dogs, actually. And they begin to lick your face and crawl all over you and jump in and out of your body. And they say, we love you. We love you. You send so many. You come so rarely. Welcome. Welcome. And so you're like, you know, trying to take your pulse, trying to make sure you're breathing because you really, you have the impression, this is so serious, that I
 I may be dead. I may have just simply killed myself ten seconds ago and this is what's happening. They use their voices to make objects. They speak a language which you do not hear but which you see. You not only see it, you feel it. And so they use language to cause syntactical, architectonic, techno structures to condense out of the air. And they show you these things. They're proud of them. They come bounding forward and jump up and down in front of you and say, Look at this! Look at this! And they're all competing like children to show you this stuff. And as you direct your attention into one of these objects, you see beyond any power of contradiction that this thing that they're showing you is impossible. They're constantly transforming themselves in the most amazing way. And they're showing you this stuff and they're saying, Do what we're doing. You can do this. Use your voice to make something. And you're like, you know, this is now 30 seconds into this experience. Reality has been obliterated and you're just in this place. And one can do this. And there is a glossolalia. And then these objects condense out of the air. And the objects themselves are somehow alive. You put one down and they emit sound and make subsets of their own type. And all of this is just, you know, you're just like, My God, what has happened? The strange thing about DMT is it doesn't affect your mind in the ordinary sense. So that you're not ecstatic or freed of anxiety. Or you're exactly who you were before this started happening. With all your neuroses, fears, doubts, and you're saying, Is this all right? Am I going to be okay? How long is it going to last? So forth and so on. But the point I wanted to make that I got started on a few minutes ago is after many of these exposures to this, I have realized, and I think I'm right, that this environment into which you are catapulted, bizarre as it is, it is someone very strange. It's their idea of a reassuring environment for a human being. They are so marvelous to you because you've never seen anything like it. But on the other hand, you've just been born into this world. And this is why I think perhaps it is a bardo. Perhaps it is an after-death, I don't know if maternity ward is quite the phrase, but it's where you start your existence in this other dimension. But in the same way that a baby lying in a bassinet in a maternity ward could hardly conceive of growing up to drive Ferraris, collect art, and crush the competition, you, lying there in this nursery, in this playpen, how can you extrapolate what lies beyond that space? Because clearly the entire space has been prepared for baby. And you're the baby. So you can't figure out, you know, is this the entirety of this universe, or how far does it extend? And I suspect that when you die, this is what you get, and that familiarity with the after-death vehicle, that DMT actually is a thanatoptic compound, and that this trip is, you are peeking over the edge into eternity. And, you know, questions you never thought you would have answers to are answered. Just, you know, is there life after death? You bet. Next question? On that note, let's go to dinner. Thank you. I was wondering if you thought that... Have you always been a knowledge junkie, or have psychedelics increased your enthusiasm for learning, or capacity for it? I've always been sort of a knowledge freak. I mean, I was a very weird kid. I knew I was weird when it was happening, but now that I have a 15-year-old son, and watch how he does it, I realize how absolutely weird I was, and how alarming I must have been to my parents. And I was not socially adaptable at all, because I had bad eyes and poor coordination, and I was very easily intimidated. Like, you know, the story of my early schooling was, in a town of only 1,200 people, I was able to find 1,700 different ways to get from school to my house, in order to avoid being pounced upon by roving cannibal bands of my peers, who had sworn to get me, and they never got me. It was astonishing. Is that New York? No, no, this was some cow town in western Colorado. The other thing I discovered early on, and maybe this is too psychotherapeutic to waste time on, was that I could hold them at bay with story. And essentially I became like the king's jester, you know. And then I could hang out with these lumbering, lumpen people, because I was always willing to verbally outrage and say crazy things. I mean, like, one of my things that really got me a lot of points with the tough guys was I could stand up in class and very rapidly speak sentences into which I could occasionally drop obscenities, but you just couldn't quite hear it. But the kids could hear it, but the teacher couldn't. So that was my scene. But in terms of the relationship to knowledge, I just, I love, it's what William Blake said, you know. He said, attend the minute particulars. And that's what's interesting, I think, is the details of the distinctions among things. I mean, that's why I was a butterfly collector, an art historian, a Tibetan art hound, a rainforest botany person, because what it's all about is the incredible variety of morphological expression in the world. And I suppose a Buddhist would recognize this as a serious samsaric hang-up, you know, that I love the texture of the apparent visible world. It's funny that you ask this question, because in my morning meditation this morning, I had this image of a work of art which many of you know, I'm sure. It's called Durer's Etching of Melancholia, and it shows an angel in the foreground, and she has the instruments of geometry, and there are zoological collections and maps spread out, and an orrery of the solar system, and she's holding her head, and this strange geometric form is beside her. Well, I've put a lot of study into this geometric form and its history and so forth, but that wasn't what caught my attention in the meditation this morning. It was that I realized or I recalled that someone had said that this might be a medically accurate portrayal of migraine, and perhaps the earliest, because Durer was interested in pathology. And then I got the thing for the first time, which was that the angel has a headache because of the proliferation of this technological artifactory of all sorts that is spread around, and it's this amazing picture of historical exhaustion. I don't know how I got off onto that. But anyway, this thing about complexity and appearances, I think the way to get into reality is by running the edges, as I've said. And for me, the entry drug was science fiction, definitely, because that permitted anything. I suddenly got the idea, aha, the imagination sets the parameters.
 If it will work in your head, that's good enough. You don't have to go further than that. You can build machines, societies, organisms, relationships in your head. And if when you run it, the gears turn and the wheels go and it works, then that's it, it works. You don't have to go further than that. And, well, it sort of is working here. I mean, I'm amazed at what I'm seeing happening. I mean, I have the feeling that we're just calling it into existence, that it's working. Just don't drop the ball, don't jinx it, nobody say too much, but it's turning, I can feel it. I mean, it's like turning a battleship with a canoe, but it's turning, you know, and it's enormous, so it's very hard to deflect its momentum. Nevertheless, by holding this point of view, somehow it's working. I've never seen anything like it. I mean, I wouldn't have believed it possible. It is that the world is made of language, and it is that by a certain act of contained concentration, if you are with the Tao, it begins to shed its secret, or it begins to open ahead of you. What's that thing by W.H. Auden about a glacier rattles in the cupboard, the desert sighs in the bed, and the crack in the teacup opens a door to the land of the dead? It's that, you know, it is a linguistic structure. You can decondition yourself sufficiently to actually step outside the cultural illusion. It's a breathtaking possibility, because nobody knows what's outside the cultural illusion. I mean, you know, Plato got it right. We are chained in a cave, watching the flickering shadows of something, but life taken with sufficient seriousness and pushed hard enough at the edges, then this stuff will give itself up to you. And it isn't about belief. It isn't about commitment to guru or dogma or method. It's about observational integrity. It's about witnessing and some kind of primacy of self. In other words, you have to believe that you can tell shit from Shinola. And when you say it's shit and they tell you it's Shinola, you have to vote with your own side, you know. And it's very interesting. The world is like a labyrinth, or as I said yesterday, it will be mastered by a feat of understanding somehow. It's like a riddle. Yeah. Can you give some advice on how to avoid the pitfalls of mushrooms, the danger of mushrooms? The supply is irregular for those of us who don't have our own botanical garden. From time to time, there are just physical problems. Is there anything practical to share? Yeah, well, the very best thing is to grow them. And this is not as difficult as it's been made out to be. And, you know, the dedication of half of a small closet will get you, your friends, and their friends absolutely smashed. And the other thing is, I mean, I really am serious about urging it. It may sound exotic, but if you want to meet the alien and have a relationship with something very strange that loves you, but that is very, you know, a lot different from a house cat, you should grow this stuff. First of all, it's white as the driven snow. Melvillian associations aside, there's something to be said for this. And then it will take rye, which you buy in a health food store for $17 per 100-pound sack, and it will take rye and it will convert it with a 12% efficiency to dried mushrooms. 12% efficiency to dried mushrooms. I mean, this thing is like, it just wants to enslave itself to you. It will work like a dog. I've never seen anything like it. And it promotes virtues such as cleanliness, the primary virtue in Western civilization, attention to detail, awareness of scheduling, all these grounding qualities. And then at the end, it will deliver to you, you know, the alien body of the higher and hidden unspeakable. And I suppose I should say that my brother and I wrote a book about how to do this, which you can, is around. It's not under the name McKenna. We did it pseudonymously. It's called Psilocybin, the Magic Mushroom Grower's Guide. But literally, if you want to turn your life into pure science fiction, this is the way to do it. Because then you have it. And it's not the dried stuff that's rubbery, that only works half the time, that costs an arm and a leg. It's the living quintessence of the thing. My Lord, I mean, from that point, you know, you are your own Magellan and need take lessons from nobody because the universe that it opens up to you is so large that really you can be confident you'll see things nobody's ever seen before or will ever see again. And technically, it's not that difficult. I mean, it's at the level of a hobby. It's a little trickier than canning jam. It's up there with growing sprouts in little trays or culturing yogurt or something like that. Yeah. Can you maybe say a couple of words also about DMT and what sort of situation? I haven't had it before, and I'm just asking for the first time how to set it up and maybe some ideas and words. DMT is, you know, regrettably very rare and hard to get. I did notice that the last issue of a magazine called Psychedelic Illuminations that's published in Southern California that you can probably get at the Phoenix or the Bodhi Tree published the recipe, published four pages of Cam Abstract saying, just in case you were wondering, an interesting phenomenon is going on, which is we haven't talked about this much this weekend, but briefly it goes like this. As many of you probably know, there is a South American hallucinogen called ayahuasca that is orally activated DMT, and it's orally active because it's complexed with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, in this case harmine, which comes from a large South American vine called Banisteriopsis capi. Well, hardcore plant psychedelics all over North America have begun to realize then that this formula, DMT-containing plant plus MAO-inhibiting plant boiled together, concentrated, gives you some kind of pseudo-ayahuasca. And people are experimenting furiously and, you know, producing ghastly brews and amazing stories, and in some cases actually getting it right. What seems most promising is it was just discovered, now here's an example of ethnobotanical progress, it was just discovered about two and a half years ago that a plant in the American Midwest called Desmanthus illinoisensis, the Illinois bundle weed, a plant that has no particular folk history or anything, it's just a problem plant on the prairie, has more DMT in the root bark than any plant ever measured on this planet, and no history of human usage, although to me it's suggestive that it's called bundle weed because that suggests medicine bundle, but maybe that's just a coincidence. Anyway, the Indians claim they don't know from it. Well, you can take that plant and scrape the root bark, and then there is another plant that grows widely in the American West and the seeds of which are sold in Iranian markets all over the country as incense, a plant called Pagamon hyacinth.
 Harmala, the giant Syrian rue, and it contains not Harmene, but Harmeline, which actually is a more hallucinogenic cogener than Harmene. So what people are doing is they're taking Pagamin Harmala and shredding it and boiling it with Desmanthus Illinoisensis root bark, and they're producing a North American analog to ayahuasca that works. And this is a very interesting development on many levels because it means people are essentially concocting their own unique personalized brews. It also means that probably Pagamin Harmala, which I'm not kidding, in these Iranian markets they call it Hermal, and for six dollars they'll sell you a pound of it, which has enough Harmeline in it to flatten your entire apartment house, Pagamin Harmala as a source of this MAO-inhibiting Harmeline can probably be used to activate all of the DMT-containing plants in the flora of North America. And there are many. There are, first of all, a whole family of grasses, the Phalaris grasses, Phalaris arundinaceae, I can't remember, several others. They cause staggers in sheep and are identifiable grasses. There are a number of species of Acacia. Acacia confusa contains DMT. There's a plant out in the Central Valley of California that clogs the locks, the canal system that they spend millions of dollars dredging and piling up mountains of this stuff. The root bark of that, Arundodonax, it contains DMT. So people are out there scrambling and, you know, if you were of a witchy turn of mind, this is something to fiddle around with. There's nothing more satisfying than finding your way to that moment where in your head, you know, it begins to glitter and you realize, you know, it's here, it's here, it worked. Theory and practice in perfect concert has delivered outrage. So that's a possibility. Yes? They're saying that life on Earth started a lot earlier than they thought. They thought it started like 6 billion years after the Earth stabilized, when it was only like 400 million years. And that it was very possibly, one of the ideas they had was that it was started by spores from outer space. Yes. Eventually, you see, this is what I said, that they will come to us because, I mean, that is such an, that's almost like a freebie because it is, you know, all you have to do is like just wake up for a moment and realize that, of course, space is not an impermeable barrier to life. I mean, it's a tough barrier, but I've been in the Seychelles and in the Hawaiian Islands. These are mid-ocean islands that have been populated by life that has drifted in there. And when you think about the fact that a single Stropharycubensis mushroom in the sporeulation phase, which can last up to 3 weeks, sheds 3 million spores per minute for 3 weeks. One mushroom. One mushroom. So, and then you have, you know, the dynamics of the atmosphere. They pick up off the Antarctic ice shelf chunks of Mars half the size of your head. This is now established that an asteroidal impact on Mars ejected material into Martian orbit that eventually percolated into Earth orbit. And you know now the way meteorites are prospected for is they eventually put it together that on the Antarctic ice shelf, where the wind is blowing 150 miles an hour most of the year and cutting the ice away, that you could fly, and there's no land, what you eventually would get to is the Antarctic Sea, that you can fly over those ice shelves in helicopters with high-powered binoculars and any black spot is a meteorite or an asteroid fragment because what the hell else could it be? And they've like tripled the world's inventory of meteoric material in the last 5 years through this prospecting technique. They have found a whole box full, like 20 different specimens that they are confident are lunar material ejected from cometary impact on the moon, but two strong candidates for Martian origin. And we're talking about fist-sized donies, you know. So the notion that the percolation of spores and biological material is not possible, I think it will be concluded probably fairly shortly that life originated who knows where and has been percolating out through the universe for a long, long time. Where do you see the place of cannabis in consciousness evolution or whatever? On the one hand, it's obviously doing something like that, but on the other hand, kids do it before they do a drive-by shooting in L.A. and also address maybe the notorious effect of memory. You mentioned that you sometimes do cannabis when you do a mushroom. And my experience is that I don't bring back as much information as I remember when I make the food together. I just want to hear your comments about that. Yes, well, it's worth talking about cannabis. I certainly, I don't think I would be who I am if it weren't for cannabis. And it hasn't particularly affected my memory. I'm actually the most devote, on a lifetime scale, the person most devoted to cannabis that I've ever known is myself. I mean, when I lived in Asia, I used to set my alarm for 2 a.m. to smoke because I couldn't go from midnight to 5. And, you know, people thought I was bananas. In terms of its deleterious effect, I mean, I think it's pretty, on a scale of the other major drugs of commerce, which would be alcohol, tobacco, and white sugar, I think it comes off as in the best position. I sort of think of it as, you know, going back to this partnership model about mushrooms in Africa, that when that all dried up and those people were moved into the Middle East and there had been previous waves of migration out of Africa that had established populations in Central Asia. This is why you have, like, Peking Man and Java Man. Those are earlier remnants of earlier migrations. Cannabis botanically originated north of the Himalayas on the plains of Central Asia. And I think it probably is the best substitute for mushrooms on the cultural level. It's interesting. See, it's one of the oldest domesticated plants. It was early on associated with cordage and fiber. And it's strange that all the words that associate to narrative are also words about weaving. I mean, you weave a story, you unravel a yarn, you, you know, thread, unthread a situation, you untangle a situation. The parallelism is very old in all European languages, this association between narrative and fiber, which means hemp. So I sort of see it as the pilot light of Gaian consciousness that was kept going. Now, what people always say to shoot this down is they say, well, but Islam tolerates cannabis and Islam is hardly the pilot light of Gaian consciousness. Yeah, I mean, it isn't actually that Islam tolerates cannabis. It's that the Koran expressly forbids alcohol. And then that leaves you to sort it out from there. I certainly think cannabis should be legalized and that if every serious alcoholic were encouraged to be a pothead and other drug abusers encouraged toward pot, the problem with pot from a societal point of view is that it is psychedelic enough that, like all psychedelics, it erodes loyalty to cultural values.
 use, meaning this is the bullshit effect, you know, you just, people say, you know, why don't you get a job? Bullshit, why should I? I don't see it implicated in violence. I mean, I think if anything, probably cannabis in ghettos is holding down violence as a drug, but probably promoting violence as an item of commerce, and that is because of chuckle-headed laws. I mean, I'm absolutely convinced that the way to solve the drug problem is to remove the profit motive. That's so obvious that I just, it's baffling to me, and society is so schizophrenic on this topic. I mean, the most dangerous drugs are alcohol and tobacco, both fully established in the engines of commerce. It's a bizarre situation, and, you know, largely driven by the agenda of Christian fundamentalism in collusion with criminal syndicalists who see this as an opportunity for enormous profit, and to, you know, cynicism all the way along, yeah. Yeah, but I do find that, I mean, I can't smoke a lot of pot, because it just, unfortunately I've never become addicted to any drug as much as I tried. My body just doesn't tolerate it, and I've tried them all more than once, but I do find that pot, I mean, I've had friends who became potheads who, it wasn't that they betrayed commerce, they lost their ambition, and, you know, I mean, you're very intelligent, and you've got a vision, and you're dedicated to your vision, you can pursue it, but, you know, you're a little bit above most average people, but, or different than most average people. Manic is what you're trying to say, yes, I understand. But, I mean, I would say, you know, really got lost because of their addiction to pot. And so I think that there's more an issue around, it's not about drugs as much as it's about addiction, and the issue of addiction. That's right. And how addiction is, you know, individuals become addicted because they're avoiding certain psychological issues that they're, you know, struggling with, that, you know, rather than dealing with the issues, they, you know, turn on the TV. Well, this relates to this larger model we talked about of time, of the war between habit and novelty. The thing that offends people about drugs, and if it doesn't offend you, there's, I think, something wrong with your value system, is to observe unconscious, repetitious, self-destructive behavior. I mean, if that means betting on the ponies, or chasing hookers, or shooting junk, or making bad investments, or always blowing your stack with your friends, whatever it is, repetitious, self-destructive behavior triggers disgust in the rest of the gang. And drugs, you know, for instance, heroin and tobacco are interesting examples because both, they are probably tied for their addictive ability. And yet, you know, to shoot heroin, I mean, people just turn away aghast. It's like you're the lowest of the low. Cigarette smoking, until very recently, was tolerated everywhere. Now, what is the difference here? The person smoking the cigarette, we know that tobacco is tremendously destructive. That's beyond argument. Heroin, on the other hand, if you shoot with clean needles and have a steady supply, in other words, if you're not putting in social factors, my God, these junkies live forever. You know, they just pickle themselves and live forever. And they don't get sick. So then, why is it that society is so abhorrent of heroin addiction and so accepting of tobacco addiction? The answer is the presentation of the intoxication. When you shoot heroin, first of all, you become very agitated and follow people around raving at them. And then you, if you're an addict, and then you nod. And so you drool and your face falls in your plate and your friends have to put you to bed. Tobacco, on the other hand, you know, you can maintain. There is no dramatic sequela of symptoms to betray that, you know, you're completely jacked up and twisted around and self-poisoned with this. But there you are at your desk working efficiently, making phone calls, making money, keeping it all together. So it's the presentation. And the other thing to say about drugs is that, like everything else about us, but even more so, drugs are subject to your genetic heritage of drug receptors. And so it's not the same for everybody or even close to the same. I mean, the range of response to drugs can be over several orders of magnitude and can vary throughout your life. So, you know, the fact that I can smoke endless amounts of cannabis and still produce and function, it just means that I can. I see people, you know, alcoholics who drink, I mean, if I have more than a drink and a half, I have headaches and I pay my dues. And, you know, to watch somebody go down on a fifth of Stolichnaya, you just realize, you know, this person is a Martian, metabolically speaking. I mean, it would just kill me to do that. So this has to do with tolerances and the way the organism can accommodate itself to toxins. But then below that, at bedrock, it actually has to do with genetic proclivities. Yeah. With regard to the effect of cannabis as a hallucinogen, is there a difference in your experience in smoking versus ingesting it, eating? Well, yeah, that's a good point. See, hashish or the way cannabis entered the West was as hashish, which was eaten in the 19th century. And if you read the accounts by 19th century savants who ate large amounts of hashish, it will convince you, you know, that it was the LSD of the 1870s. I mean, these are mad intoxications that they are describing. It's not sitting around, you know, seeing the wallpaper move. So they had mortals in the end, probably. Well, they were eating it. Why did cookies and brownies, now let's be totally frank, why did that lose fashion? Was there a danger in it? No, I think when pot went from $15 a lid to $475, people stopped cooking with it. But let me say this about eating hashish. If you're going to do this, I recommend that you eat red Lebanese hash, if you can. Because you see, Lebanese hash is made in a way that people don't really touch it. In the same way that charas is made in India by people whose hands may not be so clean. And, you know, you're going to take a hit, essentially, of the ambient bacterial population of the village of Hammurubitzar. And, you know, your guts will go completely berserk. This is one argument for baking it in a cookie, is to get the pathogens at least smacked down a bit. But if you've never read Fitzhugh Ludlow's book, The Hashish Eater, Confessions of a Hashish Eater, it's hilarious. I mean, here it is, it's 1852, and he's at Union College in Riverdale, New York. He's been invited to the Dean's Tea, and he's just taken this massive hit of cannabis jelly before arriving at the tea. And he says something like, when the umbrellas protruding from the Oriental umbrella stand turned into gargoyles, I knew that I must excuse myself, lest I run the risk of betraying my condition. Meaning, I'm too loaded, I've got to get out of here. Let me say one more thing about this. There's a wonderful book called Shaman Woman Mainline Lady that is writings by women about drugs. And if you want to read something that just will make you roll on the floor with laughter, it's Louisa May Alcott's account of a picnic she and her friends went on with a doctor, somebody or other. And it's just the most insane thing. I mean, it's these incredibly pretentious Victorian fems with this doctor by this river in the English countryside. And it's Lil and Nell.
 And Dolly, and Dolly says, Oh Doctor, we're so exhausted with Canasta, surely you have some new little divertissement that you can share with us. And he says, Well Dolly, I do have this little case of the best Moroccan hashish bonbons from Paris, and they say, Oh, and then, and it's madness, it's just the most extraordinary thing. Yes. Does cannabis work on the brain, or chemically, does it stop? It's not very well understood. There is a receptor, but cannabis is not an alkaloid, cannabis is technically a polyhydric alcohol, which makes it a chemically unique type. It's also botanically unique. Cannabis is what's called a monotypic genus. In other words, these three species, Ruderalis, Sativa, and Indica, which are all obviously speciated within historical time and can, by chromosomal studies, be shown to be all derivative of Rusula, the Central Asian wild type. It has no near relatives, and so it's unique, and it's not well understood. As far as somebody asked about using it psychedelically, I think that the real, and I can't say I do this because I need it for other reasons, but in terms of the pure psychedelic issue, the way to do cannabis is once a week, in silent darkness, alone, with the best stuff you can get, and then just do as much of it as you can possibly do in a short a time, and sit with it. You will, every single time, be absolutely torn to pieces by it. I mean, it's just astonishing. The problem is that people get into it, myself included, for other reasons than that hallucinogenic flash, but that would really be the ideal way, and also it would prove you were a person of great rectitude and self-control, if you could do that, yeah. In one of your books, you mentioned the idea of nostalgia for paradise, as part of perhaps the unconscious, and maybe that was formed during the psilocybin paradise period. Do you see, in 2012, us having to abandon that, or will it be fulfilled by then? Well, this phrase, nostalgia for paradise, I don't know who invented it. When I first encountered it in Merciliod's book, Cosmos and History, which if you've never read this book, it's a little book. It was one of the most influential books on my thinking, because I saw there a whole different way of talking about spiritual reality. But I disagree with Iliad, that it is simply an attitude in the human mind. I really think there was a fall, and that this is a diminished condition, and that there was some kind of cohesion that we do have this nostalgia for. That's why I think our whole relationship to drugs is all about the fact that, I mean, look here, here's the metaphor. We're like the children of an abused relationship. Something was taken from us 15,000 years ago. It was the thing which kept us in balance with each other, with the earth. It kept us in our imaginations, in the poetic world of natural magic. And then it was taken from us, and it was a big downer. And life turned into history, and warfare, and subjugation, and classism, and all of these things. And the thing that was taken from us was this intoxication. And so then we moved on to alcohol, to money, to opium, because that was very big in the Minoan phase. I mean, opium had a huge influence on Minoan civilization. And all of these things, an effort to scratch an itch that you can never quite reach. But in the meantime, all kinds of addictions, wars, criminal syndicates, horrible things go on. Now in the 20th century, through the science of anthropology, a complete inventory essentially is taken of the world's intoxicating possibilities. It's part of a complete inventory of the world's people, languages, technologies, belief systems that characterizes anthropology. But there it is. In 1953, Gordon Wasson returns from the village of Huatla de Jimenez in the Sierra Mazateca, and he has the body of Eros, you know, pickled in a jar, lost since the fall of Minoan Crete, but suddenly restored. And then nobody knows what to make of it, and the CIA looks at it, and Hoffman looks at it. And now it is found, I think. And I don't know if it comes too late, or if the final irony is that we learn what it was all about, but nevertheless have to succumb to the momentum of our own stupidity. In other words, it's some kind of Greek drama, where you have this horrible realization and fully understand the whole bit, but you're doomed anyway, just because it makes for better theater. Or whether it is the, you know, the preferred, the happy ending of the Christian eschaton. What the 9th century's best tools were for cognizing these kinds of matters were scholastic theology. And I've been accused of that, been accused of that. So what scholastic theology says is that there is something called the nunc stans, the eternal now. And that somehow, well, this all goes back to this wonderful thing which Plato said. Plato said time is the moving image of eternity. And my notion of what this is all about is that the time wave we looked at last night is eternity. It's the fractal structure of the temporal module viewed from a higher dimension. Then time is the traversing of that thing. The nature of the singularity is hard to anticipate. If you use the old fractal principle of ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, do you all understand what that means? It's the phenomenon of that a fetus, as it develops ontogeny, recapitulates the evolutionary history of life on the earth. That's phylogeny. In other words, the fetus is first a little kind of a thing, an amoeboid mass of cells, and then it becomes sort of like a salamander, and then it becomes like a primitive mammal, and so forth and so on. Well, using that principle to try and anticipate the end state seems legitimate in the fractal, under the fractal dispensation. However, it leads to the conclusion that when you look at an organism, what happens to all organisms is that they die. So then that leaves you with the conclusion that what happens at the end date of the whole enchilada is the equivalent of some kind of mass dying. Well, then that really doesn't tell you much, because we don't know what dying is. We don't know whether that means that, how can the ultimate novelty be complete extinction? It must be, then, that we have to overcome, as positivists, our phobia against this area of speculation previously presided over by beady-eyed priests, and actually take it back and say that in the mysteries of metabolism and morphology, it is perhaps now necessary to entertain the idea that death is not a nihilistic release into non-entity, and that instead the shamanic model is correct, and that biological life is a sojourn into matter, and that at death...
 You know, you do go to some incomprehensible unfoldment, only the first moments of which can be made sense of. Because I really think the DMT thing is like bungee-cording into the Bardo, you know? I mean, there you go, and then just as you're up, it jerks you back. And so you get that much of a look into the yawning grave. And I take it as, it's strange, yes, but surely reason for hope and optimism. How much of oneself, whatever that means, is going to be carried over, I don't know, but it looks to me like probably not much. But what lies ahead is, well, to quote Bilbo Baggins, the greatest adventure still lies ahead. I'm pretty convinced of that, which surprises me, because I'm a cynic, and you know, I'm not easily swept into optimism. Well, you just had a great little pre-echo, your analogy with scholastic theology lets us know what is going to be the defining event of 2012. The collected works of Terence McKenna are published under the title Summa Mycologica. I'll take it. Yeah. What cautions and reservations do you advocate in like this dance with Kali? I mean, we talk about the revival, and sometimes I wonder if we remember what we're talking about, that in this possible great ecstasy there lies some danger. Yeah, I guess I'm constantly asking that question, as I've taken a four and a half year break from drugs, and moving back in that direction, and having consumed some mushrooms recently, and wanting to, like in this revival of the use of these substances, I feel like a need to be absolutely reverent, and to be sensitive to what I'm doing. Well, the danger, I mean, as I see it, and I feel it very strongly, the danger is, just to put it out there, is madness. We talk about stretching the envelope, we talk about running the edge, but you don't want to rip the envelope, you don't want to island yourself in a situation where nobody can make sense out of what you're saying. And yet, that's the game we play, is always pushing. So what you said about reverence, and absolute impeccability of attitude, and also I think it's very important to be physically together. You know, I mean, it's important to be physically together anyway. I go to a gym three days a week, and I think of it as preparation for psychedelic voyaging, because if your body is a clean instrument, you can do it. The other thing is technique. I mean, in the psychedelic state, if there are problems, there are techniques to deal with them. The best technique, and Western people don't naturally gravitate toward this, but if you get into a place you don't like on a psychedelic, sing. You must sing. Most people's tendency is to clench. This is very bad, because it can just grind you to nothing. What you have to do is you have to sit up and you have to sing, and it doesn't really matter what you sing. You will find the song. I mean, start out with row, row, row your boat, and go from there. And the other thing is, you know, the real issue I find in myself is surrender, that it's all very fine to sit here getting paid dollars per minute, extolling this stuff, but boy, is it different to do it. You can talk all you want, but the thing is so, I don't know if scary is the word, but it's such a, it's so total, what happens, and you're so vulnerable, and you know that if there is any flaw, if there is any flaw in your approach or attitude, that that flaw will be magnified by the stress of the thing and become highly problematic. So it's all about asking the question, you know, am I ready? Now this is not how beginners approach it, nor should they. It's incredibly forgiving of first, second, and third timers, but as it takes you in, what it gives is a certain measure of, for want of a better word, let's call it power, and the payback on that existential validity would be another way of calling it rather than power. The payback on that existential validity is that you have to be okay, and you know, maybe it's my Catholic upbringing or something, but one cannot do the examination of conscience carefully enough, because there's always flaw. So it's about, you know, staying right with it. It teaches the right way to live, and also surrender. That's why I don't ever have an agenda. I regard having an agenda as essentially aspiring to be a magician of some sort, and I don't. I don't. I want to witness it. I am perfectly content to be present at the miracle. I don't want to do the miracle, and I don't want the miracle to be done to me. I just want to be there. Frank Herbert, in his book Dune, said something which over the years I've found, though it sounds flimsy to say, it actually works. Some of you may recall that in that book, they had this drug called Strune, and it did pull you out through time. It was not just a drug. It revealed, like I'm saying psilocybin and DMT do, the real structure of reality. And in there, they discuss, what do you do about the fear that comes with the gigantic, awesome dimensions of this vision? And he says, or someone tells the main character, fear is like a wind, and it blows through the mind, and what you must do is you must wait, and it cannot sustain itself unless you give it an object. And this is actually true, I've found, that fear, whatever it is, cognitively, physiologically, it's a chemical wave of release of adrenaline, and what you do is you just sit and watch it come, like a bell curve, and then recede, and then you're still on the surface of the ocean, and the power of it has been defeated. But if you give it any object to cling to, it will break white water, and then the chaos will overwhelm you. Yeah. Yeah. I was wondering if you could talk about the difference between psilocybin and ayahuasca experiences. I'm particularly interested, I've heard you talk once about how the value of those, the value in psilocybin experience is more technological and, you know, get ready to depart the planet kind of value, whereas ayahuasca is more save the planet. Feminine. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, somebody once said to me, after they took a mushroom trip, they said, I don't think I'll do that anymore. And I said, why not? And they said, because I'm not interested in insects that drive spaceships. Which sums up psilocybin pretty well. Psilocybin is Apollonian, and hortatory, and grandiose, and it's interesting that they have these personalities. I mean, psilocybin is kind of megalomaniac. I mean, it says, history is ending, prepare for the departure, the crisis of the species is upon us, cosmic forces are intersecting, machines the size of Manitoba will be involved. And it's all about, you know, mankind, prepare to depart for the higher orders of the galactarian hegemony and this whole thing like that. And Ayahuasca is all about how rivers flow, and family lines intersect, and what is in the river, and what is in the mind of the woman, and what is, it's like this very sensual telepathy.
 thick gas which spreads out when you're in the rainforest and brings you into connection with everything. It's also, it doesn't speak. It becomes like the eye of a camera. It's language is entirely a visual language. It never speaks. It just shows you, showing, showing, showing. After a good ayahuasca trip, you feel like your eyes are falling out. I mean, you have been looking, literally looking with full attention for hours at this stuff with this, you know, this sense of it being distanced from you somehow. Can you recognize those two different things? No, it's a little puzzling because DMT is the, psilocybin in brain, in the metabolic pathway doesn't actually become DMT, but it's about as close as it could possibly be. So the difference is quite startling. And then DMT, when smoked, not when taken in the ayahuasca situation where you get what I just described, but when smoked, like, it trumps the psilocybin. It goes so far beyond it because it carries you into the part where you can't understand. The other one, the psilocybin communicates at least in human terms. I mean, apocalypticly, mego, technically, through these science fiction metaphors and so forth. But the DMT flash goes beyond that and you say, this is truly the presence of an alien mind. This is not being filtered for my consumption at all. This is absolutely just off the wall, whatever it is, yeah. That's right. So it's puzzling that the route of administration and the complexing with the MAO inhibitors gives it these different psychological tones because I think almost everybody who's experienced these things would agree with what I said about these aspects of the personalities of the substances. Is LSD a dangerous chemical? No, LSD is different. LSD is like psychoanalytical Drano. It's not a personality. Could that be a natural derivative from the... You mean the morning glory seeds? I've only taken those things five or six times in my life and all in my youth and I remember the visions. I remember the hallucinations. Once on Hawaiian Woodrose on Argeria Nervosa, I entered into an entire world based on the theme of the sea urchin and I was in these cathedral-like vaulted spaces which were the insides of sea urchins and then there was this coach that was pulled by these very strange looking animals and it had these nipple-like protuberances all over it and everything was done in mauve and purple and white and it was just sea urchin world for about 20 minutes and then that went away. Could you explain, and I know this gets back to a basic premise in what we've been talking about the last couple of days, but elaborate a little more on why you conclude that these hallucinations are in fact true hallucinations. In other words, why do you conclude that these alphalic entities really exist? Well, really exist. True enough. We talked about that, didn't we, about the Wittgensteinian thing, did we? Yes. They're true enough because they have efficacy. You see, we miss the point because we think the world is made of matter. Matter is simply a concept. The world is made of language and since the hallucinations communicate in language, they are as real as anything else. They are helping make reality. It's crazy to think that the universe is made of quarks and mumesons and neutrinos and stuff like that. I mean, who here has ever seen one or has even the most specious grasp of how you would go about looking for such a thing? But we get exposed to those words. The world is really made of language, of interlocking concepts. Well, so then that means that the hallucinations are real. In that sense where Mia Farrow says in Rosemary's Baby, my God, this is actually happening, that's what needs to happen inside the psilocybin trip. We have this category called hallucination or intoxication or trance and then we say, oh, it's only mental and therefore it's not real. Well, I've got news for you. It's all mental and therefore it is real. And the big news is that while we've been waiting for aliens to come in ships from the stars, we have totally overlooked the alien nature of reality around us and that by pushing into these mental dimensions, we discover a bewildering fauna of angels, demons, helping spirits, ancestor spirits. I only speak from my own experience. So, for instance, I'm unable to pass judgment on something like voodoo or tantric invocation or something like that, but I, using reason, was able to confirm the existence of things that no reasonable person believes in. And, you know, this is impressive and it's repeatable. That's the thing I want to stress. This is not some faith or something where you have to, you know, I don't know. It's just that it's a technology. It's a technology of ethno-pharmacology. Obviously the experience is repeatable, but what that experience means and whether it indicates some, for lack of a better phrase, objective reality separate and apart from your mind is not necessarily proven by having the experience itself. Yes, but see, it's difficult to prove that there's any objective reality apart from your mind anyway. Yeah, I mean, but it's not only, it not only rests on Berkeley, which is an earlier version of it, but it also rests now on quantum physics' need to include the observer into the equation. Somehow there is a something which the vectors of which are collapsed into the experience of the here and now by the observational act and then the role of language in this. I mean, this is, it's not easy to sort this stuff out. If you want to read an interesting book, read Despinet's book, The Philosophical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. This will give you something to chew on for sure. Somebody, yeah. Oh, that it, well, that it has no character or, and by character I meant personality. I didn't mean to diss it. I just meant it doesn't organize itself around a personality the way psilocybin does. I found LSD to be like a conceptual enhancer. It was great for looking at things and for thinking about things. And, but I also, and this may be my, my, and obviously is my personal thing. I found it just physically incredibly hard on my body. I mean, my God, the next day I would lay in warm baths and try and sort it all out. And that seemed, and I was taking good LSD. I mean, Sandoz LSD. So, for me, when I got to psilocybin, I was just exultant. Because, see, what I had done is I'd read Huxley. Then I'd gone back to Havelock Ellis, The Dance of Life, and Henri Michaud, The Miserable Miracle, and people like that. Havelock Ellis talks about ruined buildings of great antiquity drooping with opalescent jewels and protruding from Venusian forests. And I said, that's what I'm after, you know. And LSD would never even approach that. It was much more mechanical and elusive and fast moving. Well, then when I took psilocybin, lo and behold, it was just like Havelock Ellis produced and directed by Havelock Ellis. And that is what I love. It may just be a prejudice of mine, but to me, the transcendental part of it is the visions. Because thoughts you can have, and even insights you can have, but to have behind your darkened eyelids a huge Technicolor movie going on for minutes and minutes, stunning in its cohesion and beauty.
 and architectonic, triumphal, and you just say, wow, this is great, this is great, who's doing this? And the thing, if you appreciate it like that, it will say, oh, you think that's something? Look at this! And then it starts trying to impress you, and you say, yes, do it, just take me, I'm yours, go, go, go. Yes? Could you say something about the information that's revealed through the drug in due state and dreaming? Good question. I think that perhaps dreaming is, you know, that perhaps every night we go as deep as these psychedelic drugs take us. But there's something about, there's apparently very little short-term or long-term memory trace that's laid down by these experiences. I think if we would just legalize these things and turn our creative science people loose on this, what we really need is a drug that allows you to remember your dreams. That's it. Pardon me? Well, we have the concept and we have claims, and one that will work for me. Yes, that's a good point. The one argument that I feel the force of against cannabis is that it completely suppresses dreaming. Well, it's debatable. I think that because it's a boundary dissolver, that I have sort of a pressure theory of dreams and that somehow cannabis depressurizes the dream place because you deal with this material inactive fantasy. But boy, if you stop smoking, if you're a regular cannabis user and you stop smoking, within 48 hours you will have dreams that will have you on the phone to mother. I mean, and it goes on and on. I stopped smoking cannabis about a year and a half ago for four months and what finally sent me back to it is the dreams convinced me I was losing my marbles and then enough of making a point, you know. And it was accessible to my rational mind. My rational mind was in place enough to know that I had indeed dreamt it and that I was re-dreaming and absolutely recollecting and reliving the dream state and the previous dreams that I had for the last month or so. And where were these amanitas from? Michigan. Michigan. Yeah, a lot. And what were the other symptoms? Did you feel cold? I threw up about ten times, but that was, you know, it was okay. Did you hallucinate? It was totally as though I was dreaming. I was just absolutely immersed, I was cataclysmic. I mean, I did not move at first. Well, that's very interesting. I mean, we didn't talk much about amanita muscaria. Amanita muscaria is very mysterious because it is so variable over its range. It's seasonally variable, genetically variable, geographically variable, and so you hear once in a while an amazing amanita story. Most amanita stories are that it's toxic and horrible, but maybe one in 15 stories will be something just wonderful like this. And I'm convinced that it has to do with some very subtle chemical equilibrium that people find and lose. And probably when amanita shamanism was flourishing, it was a case of where you really did have to go to a master to sort out how to do it without wasting your time or poisoning yourself. I really did initially think I was dying. I mean, I knew I was being poisoned, but it was all right. I had willfully entered into it with the sense that I wanted the death. Not a physical death per se, but I wanted to experience the Bordeaux. And so it was like a willingness to be, you know, to feel poisoned. And so, you know what I mean, it wasn't a negative thing or something that I had willfully sought. And was it muscarinic poisoning, chills and salivation? Yeah. And uh-huh, uh-huh. But it was okay. I mean, it was just because it was as though I had accepted total responsibility that that was a willful act on my own part. And so it didn't look as, you know, like... No, I... I didn't say, you know, what is death? I mean, to me, you can look at is death birth or is death death? And it was as though I was participating in a birthing. I mean, it was just I focused on that aspect of it. And so I was not merely dying, I was birthing myself. And so it didn't have the negative. I didn't get ill by it. Uh-huh, I understand. And I was sick, it's... I'm not... You know, it's as though... Another Alice speaker I had this previous, a few weeks before that, was I had all these energies, you know, just hitting me. And the idea was this voice just kept saying, take my shoes, anyone take your shoes. And so it became very apparent that you could get paranoid and just indulge in that aspect. My God, I'm dying. And... Yeah, well, the ego, this is what the ego tells you as its last desperate ploy. Let me say to the group, as far as Amanita and Muscaria is concerned, don't try this at home, folks. I mean, it's, you know, out there on the edge of the bardo. I think, though, I mean, I hear what you're saying. If you're truly psychedelic, the difference between living and dying is quite immaterial. No pun intended. But is this really the case, or is the outcome almost like... You know, do you manifest it in your mind, or are you languaging the sense, this is death, I'm dying, dying, dying, or do you just transmute it and you say, this is death, I'm being born, I'm being born, I'm being born, and you manifest the reality. I mean, that's whether you are dying, actually, or whether you're being reborn. I mean, it's kind of almost the same thing. Yeah, this is the issue of surrender, because boundary dissolution is interpreted by the ego as death. And if the boundary dissolution is happening rapidly, or for some reason in an alarming fashion to the ego, it will pull out this explanation. And then you really have to discipline the hind brain and say, you know, no, this is what we chose to do, this is the course we're set on, and this is the course we're sailing, because, you know, what are you going to do? How has taking The Project Taken Over the Years affected your familial relationships and your life generally in terms of your happiness? Well, it's hard to say, you know, because you ask about a path not taken, as well as a path taken. All the women I've ever been with were heads of some sort, of varying and lesser degrees. I was married for 15 years. We're separated. I don't see the drugs as a particular issue, although my wife used to complain that I spent a great deal of time sort of out of the flow of family life and loaded. But on the other hand, I remember when I was 8 and 9 years old, huge scenes with my father and my mother because they were always going off on picnics or something, and I always wanted to stay home and read. So it was exactly the same pattern before drugs appeared in my life. I've always been, I like to do things by myself a lot. I think, I mean, cannabis for me was really a turning point. I remember the first time I smoked cannabis, and I realized, aha, I can be a normal person with this stuff. I can self-medicate myself, and I can stop being this incredibly hyperactive, nervous, yammering, skinny, bespectacled, Ichabod-like creature that I was. And then, I don't know, I mean, I leave it to you to judge the result, but my impression was that it helped with that, that I, and it helped.
 helped with my social relations, because I was always so alienated and peculiar. But my life has been so totally about drugs that I can't imagine it any other way. One of the things that most horrified me when I stopped smoking cannabis, and I had always said it about cannabis, was you worry. You worry. People who don't smoke cannabis worry. Now they would say that they're tending to business and that that's part of being an adult. But most worry is superfluous and preposterous. And, you know, if I don't smoke pot for a week, I become very attentive to stuff like balancing my checkbook, receipts, get deeply into receipts, and just all this weird stuff, you know. And I start thinking, you know, gee, is my medical insurance paid up, or I should prepay my taxes, and all this kind of thing. Now I suppose to go too far in the other direction, you would just be a complete space case. But my life seems to function very well, and people say I have an abnormally neat apartment. So I don't think I'm letting down too much. But anxiety is a very dubious thing, I think. And anything that assuages that, as long as it doesn't sedate you, is probably a pretty good thing. Your presence makes me think it's not as eccentric as it probably actually is. So I appreciate your contributing to my own delusional state. I hope you found this information interesting. You know, avoid gurus, follow plants. It's like Van Morrison says, no guru, no method, no teacher, just you and me and Mother Nature in the garden, in the garden, wet with rain. So thank you very much.

Terence McKenna - Botanical Dimensions - Hawaii, 1988

Hier ist ein sehr groes Exemplar der Ayahuasca Ranke. Sie hat diesen abgestorbenen Baum vllig berwuchert. Es ist der weltgrte halluzinogene Pflanze. Was wir hier sehen sind ganze Tonnen von alkaloidhaltigem Pflanzenmaterial. Es ist die klassische Pflanze des Schamanismus am Oberlauf des Amazonas und die Quechua-Indianer sagen, es sei die Leiter zum Mond, das Boot, das sie zum Zentrum der Milchstrae fhre. Vielleicht. Dies ist ein Gras, das der Geburtenkontrolle dient. Es ist viel darber geschrieben worden. Es heit Chikurupiripiri. Es wird noch erforscht, aber es steht fest, dass es die Eingeborenen von Pucallpa als Verhtungsmittel benutzen. Inmitten des tropischen Regenwaldes von Hawaii betreut der kologe und Schamanenwissenschaftler Terence McKenna die Stiftung Botanical Dimension. Ethnomedizinische Pflanzen aus allen Teilen des globalen Tropengrtels werden hier auf einem 98 Hektar groen Waldstck angepflanzt, um sie zu erforschen und vor dem Aussterben zu bewahrten. Hier bekommt man einen Eindruck von der Dichte und Komplexitt des hawaiianischen Urwalds. Wir wissen, dass diese tropischen Wlder voll von chemisch interessanten und medizinisch wirksamen Pflanzen sind. Der Amazonas, die Wlder von Chiapas, von Bali, von Guatemala, von Hawaii, von Assam, von Westirien. All diese tropischen kosysteme sind bedroht. Wenn einmal eine Spezies ausgelscht ist, ist sie fr immer verschwunden. Diese Heilpflanzen sind seit ewigen Zeiten eingebunden in den menschlichen Lebenszusammenhang. Sie wurden stndig gesammelt, miteinander gekreuzt und wegen ihrer jeweiligen Wirkungsweisen wiedergesammelt. Diese Pflanzen reprsentieren das spirituelle Erbe tausender Jahre von Jger- und Sammlerkultur. Aber wir verstehen sie nicht als Produkt unserer Kultur, so wie wir ein Flugzeug oder ein Auto als Kulturgut betrachten. Der wesentlichste und wirklichste Teil sogenannten alten Wissens ist wahrscheinlich, was die Leute ber Pflanzen wussten, da sie in solch enger Verbindung mit ihnen lebten. Wir sehen uns gern als eine Spezies von Jgern, aber in Wirklichkeit war das Jagen und Fangen von rohem Fleisch eher ein seltenes Ereignis, gemessen an der Zeit, die aufgewendet wurde, um Wurzeln, Beeren, Bltter und Nsse zu sammeln.

Terence McKenna - Interview On WFMU - 21 April 1994

I'm talking about the fact that the Invisible Landscape was just re-issued. Yes, I'm glad to see it out. I think it's my best thing. I think it's our best thing. Really? Yeah. For people who don't know, that was Terrence and his brother Dennis both wrote that book originally in the mid-70s, if I'm not mistaken. Right. And maybe we should talk about the book in a little bit because I think for the benefit of the audience here listening for the first time to you speak, maybe we should sort of have a few questions that are probably pretty general and probably often asked to you, but I think they're still pretty appropriate and necessary questions nonetheless. So if you don't mind, we'll dive right in. No, please have at it. Okay. Well, one thing that comes up all the time is the fact that, well, let's just say briefly that your whole deal is talking about the usage of psychedelics. And I guess I should let you do an overview of that, but one big question that comes up a lot is the difference between, well, people will say, why do people have to do psychedelics to achieve some kind of altered state of consciousness or some other way of seeing the world when there are other tried methods that have been around for thousands of years, such as meditation or breathing techniques, to achieve those same states? Well, I notice you call those methods tried. You didn't call them tried and true. Well, that's right. I tried them and they weren't so true. Right. The problem is that these other techniques are nowhere near as effective in terms of the amount of time you have to spend with them or how deep you go. I've never really understood the fascination with achieving these things on the natch. It's, to me, quite reassuring to know that these effects are being caused by a plant or a substance and that when it metabolizes out of my body, I will return to my ordinary baseline of consciousness. These are not states of mind that we're trying to homestead in the sense of go and live there. They're too radical. They're too transcendental for that. These are not just simple alterations of ordinary consciousness, but actual journeys into titanic, dynamic, previously unimagined dimensions. The fact that one can get there at all is astonishing. The demand that one be able to get there without pharmacological assistance seems, to me, perverse. It's interesting. Terrence, this is Rusty Hoover. You may remember me as The Sound Man. I can barely hear you. This is Rusty Hoover. You may remember me as The Sound Man at the Open Center over the last couple of years. It's interesting that you say you find it reassuring that you're taking a psychoactive plant, because it's the opposite. People's worry is the opposite of that, that they find it reassuring that they're doing it on the natch and not from some plant. You're 180 degrees from that. Yes, because I assume that if the plant is the sine qua non, as we say, in other words, the thing without which it won't work, then you always know how to get back to ground control. If you do it on the natch, you may find it very difficult to get back to anything that you can identify as normality. Interesting. It's the operational control as well as the effectiveness that makes the plant so attractive. This sort of brings up a statement you made at one of your talks in the past. I don't remember what actual workshop it was that you gave this at, but you said, and I quote, The core experience of the tryptamine hallucinogens is a paradigm-confounding encounter with another order of organized intelligence that is in some other dimension that is potentially cotangent to this world. That's certainly a mouthful, but could you first, for those who may not know, explain what a tryptamine hallucinogen is? If you could elaborate on the statement a little bit, because I think it's fundamental to what you're talking about when you talk about this other intelligence that you encounter when you're in that state. Well, first of all, what is a tryptamine hallucinogen? It's a psychoactive compound in this limited chemical family related to serotonin, so that would be DMT, psilocybin, 5-MeO, DMT. These are the naturally occurring tryptamine hallucinogens, and what's interesting, among other things, about them, especially DMT, is that it occurs naturally in human metabolism. It's the only psychedelic compound known to do that, really. I mean, there are some quibbles, but so that's what we're talking about when we're talking about tryptamine hallucinogens. This family occurs in human beings, occurs more commonly in nature than any other type of hallucinogen, and yet, and this addresses the other half of your question, when the human experience of these things is an experience of the transformation of consciousness and category that is so profound and overwhelming to most people that you have to describe it as a kind of apotheosis. In other words, it seems to have all the earmarks of a deep mystical ecstasy and revelation of hidden orders of existence, the classical spark plug for religions and religious experience. So I'm very interested in this because DMT is apparently quite harmless. Almost anyone who has access to the compound can achieve the states I'm describing, and yet very little is known about it. It's very little discussed in a world mad for thrills of every sort. This, nevertheless, is somehow passed by. So I, as a philosopher, student of the human experience, I'd like to know why. I'd like to know what culture would be like if it were informed by the values and insights that seem to reside in that other dimension. Well, you know, this sort of brings up the issue of whether or not you're... When you talk about the other and you talk about going into that state, you have stated that you're making contact with some kind of alien being or some kind of other intelligence, right? But others would argue that, including your brother, in a recent interview... I think I have the quote right here, Fabio. Terrence, your brother has critiqued you a bit on this point about the other. I think he said that he made a statement that psychedelics are not about getting in touch with aliens. They're about getting in touch with the self. And I think he also claimed that you've either lost sight of that or decided to overlook that. What do you respond to that? I know this is a critique you get a lot from people at your talks. Well, I enjoy discussing these things with Dennis, whether in person or merely in the third person. When he says that it's not about getting in touch with aliens, it's getting in touch with the self, he's using the self in a very self-conscious way. He's using it the way a Jungian analyst would use the word the self. And if you've read Jung on this subject, you know that the self is not... it's the repository of all mystery. In other words, to say that something is the self is not to have solved the problem or illuminated what it is. You've simply indicated that its source is completely mysterious. I agree with him completely. The self is the mystery, and any contact with aliens or with the woman you're sleeping with is going to be mediated through the self. The self stands in the first position. I don't think there is any great difference between Dennis and I on these positions, although I agree that it often sounds like it. I enjoy putting us together privately or in public because the debate that he and I have...
 have over the epistemic foundations of these ideas is a microcosm of the debate I would like to see go on in society about just these precise issues. I think essentially what the problem is is that people take you too literally. Yes, they take me too literally and they also presume to understand. You mentioned at the beginning of the program that Invisible Landscape is back in print. Invisible Landscape, which is our deepest statement on these things, is an incredibly dense and complicated manifesto of some sort. I personally am in awe of it. The notion of what is exactly meant here, I view my career and Dennis' career as pointers toward a new style of thinking about mind and organism and pharmacology that combines the rigor of science with the imaginative sweep of natural magic. There are no secure findings yet in this field, but both from spending a lot of time with shamans in their neighborhood and a lot of time loaded on psychedelics, I'm convinced that if people will diligently explore these areas, there will be big payoff for psychology, epistemology, art, and a general amelioration of the human condition. That's just my personal conviction. A conviction is something that seems obvious to you, so you can't explain it to other people. That leads me a little bit into this next question. You've said many times that the pro-psychedelic position is in fact an anti-drug position. When I tell people this, they're baffled by it. I understand it, but could you sort of lay out that idea, what that's all about? Sure. The reason I said the pro-psychedelic position is an anti-drug position is because I've been around the block. I've spent time with junkies, and other styles of drug abuse are familiar to me, and I believe that what people find offensive about drug abuse is self-destructive, repetitive, unconscious behavior. Right. This is what we all are repelled by, self-destructive, unconscious, repetitive behavior. That could mean shooting junk into your good right arm, but it could mean watching TV six hours a day. Yeah. Meanwhile, psychedelics do not promote self-destructive, repetitive, unconscious behavior. Quite the opposite. They break up patterns of activity, promote self-perspective, self-evaluation. I think anybody who's spent time in the quote-unquote drug culture has had experiences of friends of theirs, or perhaps they themselves, undergoing dramatic personality reconstruction because of the impact of high-dose psychedelic trips. I mean, this is, in my experience, about the only way that people ever undergo dramatic long-term, overnight change. I mean, that and automobile accidents. You know, the book, The Invisible Landscape, is sort of all about the time wave zero stuff, and I know that's a long, maybe that's a whole day's workshop that you give, that discussion, but could you lay that out a little bit? Just an encapsulation. I hear the anxiety. Is there something that's possible? No, no, not at all. I know that it's a long-winded thing, so... It's a long-winded thing. Basically, what it is, is I had one original idea in my whole life, which was, and it came out of psychedelics, definitely, which was that time could actually be described through the use of a fractal equation, and I, with the help of friends, have programmed this into a computer, and we have, in fact, produced an arguable approach toward modeling history, including the future, and you're right, it's a day-long workshop, and it's unfair to expect radio audiences coming cold to this stuff to follow, but it's what I care most about. I do this public advocacy of psychedelics because it's politically correct to do so, and no one else seems to want the job. My private passion, as an intellectual, lies in this much more nerdish, mathematical, computer-assisted dimension, but it's not something you can shout about from four feet behind the footlights. Okay, well, so we'll move on to another question. I just want to, it makes me think a little bit, you've talked a lot about this incredible book by Jean Gebser, The Ever-Present Origin, and isn't that book sort of all about time? It is, and so a more important book, to my thinking, and probably period, is Alfred North Whitehead's Process and Reality. I mean, that is the psychedelic metaphysic. You can throw away your Sanskrit dictionaries, folks. Alfred North Whitehead, in very good English and on mathematically impeccable foundations, created the most psychedelic philosophy there is, I think. I have another quote that I'm going to throw out at you that you've stated in the past. You've said, the world is made of language, and I've always been curious about this statement because I've heard it in the past by others as well. It's something that's been around, and I'm curious to know more about your take on this. Well, the older statement is, I think English is a virus from outer space. That's a slightly different perception. The world is made of language. In other words, if you ask a scientist what is the world made of, he will, you know, it's made of electrons and force fields and this sort of thing. But notice that these are all words, and that behind these words stands the deeper languages of mathematics. Whatever the world really is, what we experience and what we communicate to each other is entirely couched within the medium of language. So language is the primary determinant of the experience of being, and science has chosen to be very naive about this. It's only in the 20th century that these issues have even been raised. Before that, before quantum physics, scientists blithely believed that they were observing an independent reality that their observations had no effect on. Since quantum physics, we now know that there is, you know, a much more complicated situation prevailing, that mind somehow is a necessary ingredient in the becoming of the world, and that this becoming of the world, whatever it is for itself, for mind, it is something which happens in the domain of language. I guess everything is filtered through, everything goes through language, no matter whether it's scientific or what it is. And in going through language, it takes upon itself the character of language and leaves behind much of the character of whatever it was before that. You know, Wittgenstein talked about the unspeakable. This is what he was referring to, this dimension antecedent to language, and it is unspeakable. Speaking of something now, I've got this other impression in my mind, so I'm going to move on to something else just quickly. You were scheduled to play in New York last Monday at Irving Plaza, and it got canceled. Do you want to talk a little bit about that? What happened? Well, I don't, there's no story in the ordinary sense. Frankly, I don't know what happened. I think it just was undersubscribed, or the publicity was badly handled. I don't think they promoted it, right? That was what I heard. Anyway, the word came back down through the great hierarchy of managers and producers, but it was canceled. My attitude toward these things is...
 If so, you lose money, you gain time. You've been doing a lot more of this sort of thing, talking at raves. You came out with these two records, with Space Time Continuum and The Shaman, and what was the other one? Dream Matrix. The Voyager. Yeah. In the last couple of years, you've been out there more in the public eye than you have in the last, say, 10 or 15 years, although you've done these more traditional things at Esalen and the Open Center and places like that. But now it seems you're branching out into a more public arena, and I wonder, do you see the ultimate danger in that, that, say, fell upon, well, I don't want to put you in the same camp, but people like Leary and... You're spreading the word to the masses now. Well, yes. A couple, three years ago, I was doing one of my, as you say, more ordinary gigs, but I was doing it in London, and Frasier Clark, now of Megatripolis fame, brought his posse to see me, and we just, there was a natural affinity between myself and the house rave techno gang in England, and so I started doing raves, and I did them in England, and I did them in Frankfurt, and then eventually I did a couple of them here. Oh, you have done some in New York already? Well, by here, I meant I've done them on the West Coast. Not in New York yet, though. Right. And I sort of fell into it simply because I guess I'm more comfortable with a younger crowd. I like the optimism. Before this, my crowd was basically like myself, old freaks, but now there seems to be a rising under-30 group that's very interested in psychedelics and not cynical about spirituality in the same way that the industrial noise and punk crowds were, so there is actually now been created a social space where people 24 to 26 years old can speak a vocabulary of spiritual seeking and not be un-hip, and it's a very optimistic, eco-conscious, psychedelic kind of thing that's developed in England around these clubs, around the raves, and it's coming here, and I gravitate toward it because I think these are the people who are listening to me, say, take five grams in silent darkness on an empty stomach and actually doing it, and it's changing their lives, so I appreciate that because that's what I wanted. I want a public debate about the psychedelic experience based on people having had it. You think the younger rave crowd might be more likely to do that than the older crowd? Well, I think the older crowd feels like you only have to pay your dues once, and they went to the barricades in the 60s, and that was it. What are some of the interesting legal psychedelics? There are some out there, right? There are some out there. I suppose the most interesting at the moment is this compound, alpha-salvorin, or salvorinalpha, which comes from salvia divinorum, which has just been really discovered. That's a plant, right? It's a plant, recognized in the past six months, and this is active in microgram quantities, 500 micrograms. You smoke it, and it's not a relative of any of the known psychedelics, and for 45 minutes it creates a very profound transformation of reality. That sounds like the hot one, then. Well, the fact that it's legal, you see, is very, very interesting, and I'm hopeful that rather than just schedule it without any review of the evidence, that at this point in the evolution of the drug debate, if the government wants to schedule this compound, they should at least do research with human subjects and show why it should be scheduled. Simply scheduling it on the grounds that it intoxicates means, you know, it is out front then that the whole thing is a witch-hunt, and that there is no public health issue or any other issue involved, it's just an effort to suppress interesting states of mind not sanctioned by the state. So to do that, they would sort of expose themselves by doing that, although they've never showed a willingness not to? Well, they never submitted evidence that psilocybin had any detrimental effects on human beings. It was just caught up in the hysteria about LSD. Exactly. What do you think people can do to, I mean, it seems like people are always eager to do anything they can to change these stupid laws and the stupid drug war and everything and all the negative ideas about psychedelics. I mean, could you give advice to those folks out there who want to do something about this big problem? About the drug, the whole suppression of psychedelics thing? Yeah. Well, I think, you know, like black people, like gay people, you just have to come out of the closet and say to people around us on a fairly tentative basis, you know, I do this. It's part of my life. I pay taxes. I hold down a job and yes, I take LSD or I, I'm, you know, the society is not clear thinking about drugs. I mean, for example, look at the NRA, for example. You see these bumper stickers, which say guns don't cause crime. Well, but why doesn't the bumper sticker then say, and illegal drugs do, therefore I support legalization of all drugs. You know, the NRA, if they're serious about hanging onto their guns, better carry through on their analysis of where the cause of crime lies and get with the rest of us and get a sane drug policy in place, but I don't hear that from them. Hey, it's the top of the hour and I'm just going to do an ID here. This is WFMU Uppsala College in East Orange. I'm Fabio and my co-host is Rusty and we're talking with Terrence McKenna live here. He's on the East, on the West Coast. Where exactly are you on the West Coast? I'm North of San Francisco, an hour and a half in the wine country. You know, there's one thing that we haven't said. We haven't said at all that Terrence is going to be here very soon. That's right. A week from tomorrow night, in fact. Do you want to just briefly explain what you do in your workshops? Well, there, yes. I mean, I review the psychoactive plant usage complexes around the world and share technical and trade data. Talk about the impact of psychedelics on human culture and evolution. Describe the phenomenology of these states. Talk about what they might mean for the culture crisis that we're in. Invite people to put in their two cents worth and talk about the time wave. It's basically just a freewheeling survey of this psychedelic end of the millennium techno-shamanic stuff. I mean, I'm part of a certain meme that's loose in society and I can talk about it. I'm just curious. Has any of your recent work with either the time wave or any other research you've done with the psychedelics led you to any new insights that we haven't heard from you? What's the next book? Well, I don't know what you've heard from me. I have thought a lot recently about, strangely enough, real world solutions to some of our problems and I've been talking recently about what I call the one woman, one child option. Have we ever talked about that? No. Well, that's the observation that if every woman would have only one child, the population of the planet would fall 50% in 40 years and backed by the further observation that a child born in the first world uses 800 to 1,000 times more resources than a child born in the third world. Therefore, the women who could have the most impact on the global crisis by limiting themselves to one child are first world women who are the most educated, the most ecologically aware population of women on the planet. In other words, they should be easy to convert. So I've been talking to people about how we imagine our problems are insoluble, but here's a social policy which would completely put a brake on the most...
 Damaging social problem. Yeah, but how would you how would you get something like that off the ground? I mean you would put in tax and insurance incentives and promise cradle-to-the-grave health care for any woman who did this and In no income tax and on and on and on whatever you had to do the almighty dollar. Yes And then the other thing I've been thinking about which is yet more radical and bound to spawn Heated and boisterous debate I suppose is You know this whole issue about Dominator culture and the suppression of women and the presence of the patriarchy and so forth and so on Well, I say then Following through with the idea of an archaic Reconstruction of society I believe that in archaic society the ratio of men to women was more like 70 to 30 percent and that one of the artifacts of the patriarchy is an artificially high male birth rate and That we can't nor should we wish to feminize men. That's insulting to Masculinity, but if we want to feminize the society there should just be fewer men So let's push for a 70-30 ratio and with those same tax and insurance and medical policies using amniocentesis and so forth discourage the birth of male babies for a while a world 40 years from now with half as many people and three times as many women Is the world we're trying to create? You see there's nothing wrong with being a man or a woman but the values as a species that we now need to live on this planet are feminine values nurturing caring Mothering attention to detail so forth and so on Not to knock the male values which got us to this very Brilliant and opportunistic play so you think there's a good chance that the world could be a lot less warlike with some with more feminine values Surely, yeah, except when you have people like Margaret Thatcher around. Well, I see Margaret Thatcher as a spear carrier for the patriarch You know, you have more balls than any of them Right if there were fewer people in the world we could all do cryonics and live in suspended animation and and come back a Hundred years from now. Well, if there were fewer people in the world We wouldn't have to it doesn't take too much intelligence to see that if there were half as many people We'd be on average twice as wealthy Well, it seems like you know, a lot of the things you've talked about and at some you know in the past Are starting to happen, you know, like the 90s look like they're just gonna get progressively worse to me and You know what? And when you talk about, you know, the the the what is it the shadow at the end of time? No, the transcendental the transcendental Yeah, I mean I can I'm starting to begin, you know to to like see that there's gonna be something happen I don't know when it's gonna happen or what but there definitely feels like we're something's in the air moving towards something Yes, I mean thousands hundreds of thousands of computers a week are connecting up and switching on This new youth culture is marching forward these people who are 20 now will be 40 right in 2012 my generation which is now coming into whatever power it will ever have Will have completely consolidated that power in 20 years But the other thing that's driving all this is the absolutely freakish evolution of technology Where we have hardware we don't even know how to program We haven't yet figured out what to do with stuff that is sitting around gathering dust It's not that we have to invent things. We don't have we just have to figure out how to apply what we do have and This is all Thousands of people in laboratories and think tanks are pursuing their own Minuscule part of the puzzle, but the sum total of all this activity is the cultural leap into hyperspace It's happening Hmm. Well, you know one big thing I have when I think about you and your your raps is what you talk about is to say the least highly controversial and Can Cause a lot of arguments and problems and I wonder how you've been able to avoid you know serious problems meaning with law and things like that and official agencies bugging you and Giving you a hard time because this was a big problem for some of the you know The pro-psychedelic people in the 60s and you know what happened to them and you know, it was a very different situation I mean I I came up through the 60s. I was just there I was a nobody but I recall being at rallies where Tim Leary spoke to a hundred thousand people Well, I've never spoken to more than two or three thousand people. The other thing is the war Gave the government in its own mind cart blanche to do anything it wanted to the other thing was LSD by the fact that a single chemist can produce enough doses to get 10 million people high Was actually an instrument capable of threatening the destinies of national governments releasing 10 million hits of a Psychedelic drug doesn't mean you want to get the dorm high or even that you want a Ferrari it means that you're some kind of social force to be reckoned with I've always advocated mushroom growing because I I think mushrooms are a more interesting Experience, but also no mushroom grower can produce more than a few Thousand hits at most over a period of months and so it doesn't build criminal pyramids of vast and frenzied dealing activity It's a more strategy of stealth and penetration. I mean, but that depends. I mean you talk about Mushroom, but what if somebody got into say mass-producing DMT, which can be done? Well, it can't be done on the scale of LSD I mean because see you need 50 milligrams of DMT for a dose if you had 50 milligrams of LSD That would be 500 hits of LSD To make a huge amount of DMT. You would have to commandeer a chemical factory with huge stainless steel Vats and very precise temperature controls and it's quite a daunting operation I mean if you want to produce a few ounces of DMT that Skilled amateur can do but metric tons or a whole other story Well so You want to take some phone calls? I don't have any more. Okay your question. We were thinking about having you feel some questions From our audience. Are you into that? Sure. I'll go to the bottom of the hour The number here is 201 six seven eight seven seven four three if anyone has a pertinent question Let's see And by the way, we should just say that the talk a week from tomorrow night is going to be at the Julia Richmond High School at 217 East 67th Street, I believe it is in Manhattan That's between 1st and 2nd Avenues and that's Friday the 29th at 8 p.m. I believe. Yeah 8 p.m Are you gonna be talking about anything specific at that or is it going to be one of your general talks on this stuff? I imagine the fair answer is it'll be general. I mean, I I am Extemporizing I do not really prepare. I feel like the audience brings an agenda The daily newspaper sets the tone right what I just smoked Put in the coloration, right? We should also mention in the Aldous Huxley tribute, which is the very next night I'll be participating in that feeling a bunch of other folks and that's really an important thing Yeah We're gonna be giving away some tickets for both of those talks in a little while and that's at the same place at the Julia Richmond High School and then of course There's the workshop that weekend, which will be Saturday and Sunday at the open center itself. Okay, let's put some phone callers on Hello, you're on the air. Hi, how you guys doing? Okay, all right. Yeah, how are you? I'm really excited about a lot of things that happen with the rave culture in England and in here, but I've got a really Like, you know, I have a real problem and I don't know if you're probably familiar with Alan Watts, right? Uh-huh speak up a little bit. Yeah, sure Um, what I wanted to say is that I think that people self medicating themselves with psychedelics is extremely dangerous right and What I think it can lead to is Drug abuse I think Drug abuse not drug use I think can really lead to a fascist state of mind particularly in a movement In a movement sense. I think that self-medicating
 of psychedelics is extraordinarily dangerous and I think no matter how good our intentions are people are going to abuse these drugs. Do you think it's dangerous, do you mean physically dangerous or socially? I think it's spiritually dangerous. In the sense that a person doing this? Well in the sense that it's like an amplifier, you know you plug a guitar in and you turn it up and if you don't know how to play it you're going to create a lot of horrible noise and I think that's a very close analogy. People are not going to, they're going to be following a trend, they're not going to understand the spiritual values and I think that, I mean we saw it in the 60's, I mean we saw it. Well here's the thing, I mean in some sense I agree with you, I think that what the answer is is to educate people because they're not going to not do it, so what you have to do is say look, for thousands of years people have been doing these things but in a certain way and so you don't do it in crowded social situations in the presence of pounding music and strangers, you do it in secure environments in darkness with a firm intention to learn something. This is how it's done in traditional societies and I think if people will do it that way and stay away from their automobiles obviously in the process that it can have a positive effect. I understand exactly what you're saying and I agree with you and I think that that's what happened with a lot of the Harvard tests in the early 60's and things like that, but what happens and what I think is inevitably going to happen is that it's going to spread and how you're going to deal with it because what's going to happen is that when it spreads and things are handled improperly, which I think a lot of times is inevitable because the more people involved the less easy it is to control. I mean people like yourself are going to be held accountable for negative effects, you see what I'm saying? I spoke with Dr. Leary about this at a symposium I went to and he didn't seem terribly receptive. I mean he's like a cheerleader. I was very concerned that he didn't seem to see the downside of things, you know what I'm saying? I think that we have a responsibility as human beings and spiritual beings to see the downside of things. Even if we don't want to acknowledge it we have to deal with them or they will deal with us. Yes, I think this is why you cannot say enough that the key is education. It's just like sexuality. You can't just turn people loose in an era of fatal epidemics. People have to be told and I would tell them in high school, I mean drugs are here to stay, more arriving every day. All kinds of drugs, not simply psychoactive drugs and people should be told that part of growing up in the new millennium is pharmacological sophistication and that the people who aren't getting the message, we build cemeteries for those people just like we build cemeteries for people who aren't getting the message about how you handle an automobile correctly. Automobiles, drugs, computers, apparently a collective decision has been made that these things shall join us in our world and those who aren't willing to make the effort to learn how to integrate their lives in the presence of these things are going to fall by the wayside. It's always been like this with every human adaptation. Okay, thanks to that caller. Let's take one more. Hi, I wanted to ask Terrence what do you have to say to people who are in a recovery program such as Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous who still find your ideas intriguing but have to abstain or have chosen to abstain from mind altering chemicals? I believe that what we're talking about when we're talking about psychedelics is the imagination and anybody who is in a recovery program probably knows quite a bit about drugs and psychedelics. I'm not saying that life without drugs is unbearable. I'm saying life without knowing that these places exist is somewhat unbearable. A person may have a period of heavy addiction or heavy drug use and then pull out of it but what they shouldn't deny is that there were aspects of that that were important to them or they wouldn't have been doing it. I've talked to people very high up in AA and they're very approving of the point made earlier in this program that psychedelics interrupt habitual behavior. People who manage to get screwed up on psychedelics really have a strong attraction to being screwed up I think. The way to do psychedelics and stay out of trouble is do them rarely and at high doses. It's when people start using for instance LSD like speed and they say well we'll just take 50 mikes. A lot of people used to do that. People do it a lot these days and then they think they know something about LSD. They know nothing about LSD if they're taking it at 50 mikes and they are diddling with the possibility of getting psychologically hooked on the feeling of speed. If they're taking it every day they're building up a tolerance. They're building up a tolerance and the tolerance comes first to the psychedelic effect and last to the speed effect. Again, it's about being sophisticated. If somebody brings me a new drug or a new plant my first stop is the database, the library. You want to know and I've taken everything I felt was safe. I've never been particularly strung out on anything but I keep moving. I present a moving target. I'm interested in reality and to people who've passed through drugs and are still interested in my ideas and reality there's all kinds of edges to be run. It's not simply a glorification of drugs. It's a glorification of the creative imagination. I have another question myself. How do you feel about the position that some of the other people in the psychedelic community, as it's called, take a different stance than you? You say that certain things, if they're going to be psychedelic, if you're going to take them, certain drugs...

Terence McKenna - KPFK Interview - Poets And Prophesiers - 9 May 1996

Good afternoon, you're listening to KPFK Los Angeles at 90.7 FM. This is Pamela Burton for the Pacifica Radio Archive Hour. And many of you are familiar with my guest today, someone who we've presented on the Archive Hour often enough, and that's Terrence McKenna in town for an event that sounds like it's going to be truly interesting. And lots to talk about with you, Terrence, especially because you predicted it, I know it's been a few years ago, this was going to be the week, this and last week, when a lot of events were going to be happening. This is the hottest week of the 90s, according to the time wave, and I'm certainly living the prediction myself. I don't know about other people, but things feel pretty novel. And this time wave we've talked about over the years, many people are familiar, but for those of you just tuning in, let me tell you that Terrence McKenna is an author of a number of books, some very interesting, looking at the things about our beginnings as human creatures, what it meant for us to live on the plains and eat certain kinds of foods. You've been an explorer of mind, and oftentimes we've had gatherings with you when you and your brother Dennis have talked about different chemicals and how altered states of consciousness are evidently essential, historically, for human beings. And one of the things you have talked about is this time wave zero. It goes back, we go back to, is it Mayan calendars that you predicted this on? How was it you put that together? It's not based on the Mayan calendar. After I figured it out, I discovered that it reaches the same conclusion date as the Mayan calendar, but actually it's based on studying patterns inside the I Ching. And what it is, is by some mathematical sight of hand, you get out an algorithm that a tabletop computer can then use to draw maps of novelty in time on any scale, a thousand years, two weeks, whatever. And then, of course, the game becomes to use the wave to predict where in the future interesting things will occur. And it just so happens that it predicts that the most interesting and novel period of the entire decade of the 90s began in February, has reached its most intense level right now, and will continue with very little slackening of weirdness on well into the fall. And so, I scheduled a tour of four cities during this period in order to talk to audiences about it while it was happening. And Los Angeles is my last stop on this four city tour, and we're certainly experiencing novelty even for our ordinary visits to this city. This is extraordinary. And would this have predicted that my accounting computer would have gone down last week? Basically what it predicts is roving balls of chaos moving through systemic order. So that helps in some areas and hinders in others, but it's definitely a reshuffling of the deck. That's what's going on this week, and we'll be sorting out the changes for months. And in trying to get some material facts to me yesterday, I had three fax machines go down, not one. That's amazing. That's amazing. And a number of other things. Now, is there anything going on planetarily that you could tell us about? Are planets in retrograde at this point or something? Oh, you mean astrologically? Yes. That's actually not my daily wick. I have been keeping track of weird and novel events over the past 60, 70 days. And just some highlights off the top of my head, 40 billion new galaxies discovered, three extrasolar planets discovered, that means planets around other stars, the completion of the preliminary mapping of the human genome, the production of antimatter, the discovery, the announcement that this large asteroid impact in Canada delivered enormous amounts of buckminsterfullerene to the Earth's surface, meaning that that's an organic molecule, therefore proving that lots of organic material is delivered to the Earth from space. So in areas of deep scientific discovery, discoveries that will remake human medicine, our model of the universe, and perhaps in the antimatter discovery, the ways we produce energy, all these things have occurred in this remarkably short period of time. There has not been what some people think of as massive novelty. China did not invade Taiwan and trigger World War II, and, you know, there were some similar other opportunities for old-style catastrophe that didn't happen. But you have to remember, novelty is novelty. It's new more than catastrophic. I mean, catastrophes are, in fact, rather humdrum. They come around all the time, wars, cyclones, floods. What we're experiencing is the emergence of new kinds of connectivity and order in the human world. And then what we are experiencing as individuals, if we're in resonance with the collective time wave, is, I think, just wild fluctuations of opportunity, of debt and profit, of love and hate, of you name it. Now, you're on this tour around the United States, and I did get one of your brochures. I want you to tell the audience about what you're hoping to be able to bring people to on this two-day weekend. It sounds like it could be kind of an intense time. Well, I'm very concerned to communicate these mathematically-based ideas about the structure of time and what their implications would be if they were found to be true. And so this is not something that can be done in an hour radio interview or an evening lecture. It's a pretty steep learning curve. And I'm interested in communicating that and having people critique it. I mean, we're reaching the place in the historical meltdown of Western society where, if something like the time wave actually works, I think it's time to move it to a higher level of public awareness. And that means exposure, collegial debate, possibly experiments of some sort, and then discussion. So I'm just sort of touring the country saying, I predicted this was a novel time. How does the first ten rows feel about that? And then can we get a discussion launched based on that? What have been the responses in the two cities you've done this in? Well, I've done it in three cities. We were in New York, Santa Fe, and Boulder. People were very enthusiastic. It went smoothly, but there were good crowds and very intelligent discussion. The situation here in Los Angeles is a little peculiar. We're locked in a righteous battle with the Veterans Administration and UCLA right at this moment because the Veterans Administration, which owns the large auditorium, what is it? Wadsworth. Wadsworth Auditorium, ordered UCLA, which leases this building from the VA, to cancel the event just for just Monday morning. So this has suddenly raised a whole bunch of free speech and advocacy issues. The VA's only reason for canceling Wadsworth Auditorium was my record on advocating drug reform and social reform of psychedelic policy. UCLA chose not to act like a great public university and defend free speech and the Constitution, but instead cravenly caved in to the VA and acted as their heavy and canceled the event and offered us a venue at Griffin Commons. That's right. And this is for the Friday night. The actual weekend event is all scheduled at Paramount Ranch, correct? Yes. The weekend event is not affected by this, but the chance to talk to the public gets less than a fair chunk of money, is definitely being squeezed by someone at the VA who is being protected by the events department at UCLA. They refuse to identify this person. So we've gone several routes at once. We have mobilized the media. We've mobilized the Internet. The office of Senator Paul.
 Wellstone, who is on the Senate committee that oversees VA affairs, has made an inquiry, we understand, and the U.S. attorney and other interested parties in Southern California traditionally associated with defending free speech are at this moment trying to turn the VA around by friendly persuasion, whatever that means, or if that fails, I think we'll all be in court tomorrow morning seeking an injunction on them to cease and desist and we will, we're now assuming that the Veterans Administration and UCLA are going to be forced within the next few hours to allow this event to go forward at Wadsworth. If I'm wrong, then it will go forward at Griffith Commons. But my feeling, I have to tell you, Pam, is that actually there is a constitution in this country and people can go, these government agencies can go just so far and then mechanisms swing into action and even these anonymous federal bureaucrats who would seek to control the dialogue, the agenda of public dialogue on these sensitive issues are put in their place and I'm pretty confident that we're going to have a Wadsworth Auditorium event. Well, in trying to get tickets earlier in the week, they'd actually, Ticketmaster said that someone had come and pulled the tickets when we were trying to, you know, and they had told us that it was moved to the Commons and at that point, I mean, you know, there was no explanation at the Ticketmaster. So there's another problem in terms of people trying to get tickets. It's regretful. Well, yes, UCLA has behaved hysterically in this situation. They gave us a three-hour ultimatum. We were in Colorado. They gave us a three-hour ultimatum to accept this smaller venue. We held a conference and decided we had no choice. We accepted the ultimatum, got on airplanes and flew to California to arrive at our hotel to receive a fax in which they claimed they had not received our acceptance of their ultimatum and had therefore canceled the event. Then some two and a half hours later at eight o'clock at night, we received a fax from them saying they had in fact found our acceptance of their ultimatum. So their level of professionalism and the depth of understanding of the situation that they've exhibited has left a certain amount to be desired. I want to let the listeners know that they're listening to Terrence McKenna. This is Pamela Burton and we're bringing this hour to you on the Pacifica Radio Archive Hour. I thought it was a very important reason to go live today because of the unfolding of the events. As we've been speaking about here today, Terrence has been on a nationwide tour. You haven't had trouble in any other city? Nobody else has been frightened by what you have to say? No. Just my alma mater, huh? My alma mater as well. I'm out of the Cal system. I went to Berkeley. Now I'm figuring out why. But you know, in a strange way, again, having gone back a few years with you and the discussions about your timeline, this was the week that this would happen in terms of the time wave zero predictions, correct? You just didn't know what was going to happen. Well, the funny thing about novelty theory is it tells you where the weirdness lurks, but it never tells you what it will be. So, yes, surprise, surprise. Well, I'm very happy. I love a good free speech battle. I think defending the Constitution is right up there on my agenda with staying straight with psychedelics and studying advanced mathematics. It feels good. I think that everybody, I think what we're going to do is do a great favor for UCLA. This is their moment of truth. Are they a great public university defending free speech and advocacy, or are they the craven puppet of faceless federal bureaucrats? It's time for them to decide. As the contracts are presently written that UCLA offers on the Wadsworth, the VA could cancel anyone at their pleasure at a moment's notice, and UCLA would have no recourse. So, I think we're doing them a favor. This is obviously a situation that has to be corrected. And I know you haven't been in California for some of our current fight with affirmative action, but we have, the regents have voted to put an end to all affirmative action programs in the UC system, and at the same time, it's been revealed that there are many, many instances of affirmative action for alumni, for letting kids in the back door because mom and dad are alumni. And UCLA, in particular, of course, is faced with an incredible hypocrisy. Academics, I think, in general, when you think about many of the departments in this country that have been shut down or gutted of anybody, had any Marxists, for instance, have been taken out of academics, and it does seem like a good time for us finally to, you know, to fight the good fight. Well, UCLA assigned a young guy yesterday to be our liaison with them on this matter, and I blew my stack and raved to him for about ten minutes until I realized I just made a convert. Nobody over there likes doing this kind of dirty business. They're all educated liberals. They know that this is nonsense, but they're paid these fat executive salaries basically to carry out orders that nobody familiar with the tradition of free speech could be comfortable with. So, yeah, I think it's a fine moment to do this little bit of dirty laundry in public, and probably better policies will emerge out of it. Are you letting us know anything about the guests that will be at your weekend? In your little brochure, it was announced that there would be some special guests? I'll actually have to check with the Department of Propaganda. It's so special a guest, my dear, that I have no idea what you're talking about. Oh, really? Well, one of the things I would like to do, I'm going to open up the phones and let some of the folks, since we knew that you were going to be here today, I did let a few folks know that you would be on, and so if people are interested in calling up and having a conversation and enjoying the conversation here with Terrence McKenna, we'd love to hear from you, and we are at 818-985-5735, 985-KPFK. I can never keep him all to myself. He's just far too interesting, and I always know the people that call in and ask you questions are very interesting, but I would like to ask your organizers to be sure to give me the information as far as who we're going to call. You can write that down for me, because I know a lot of people are going to say, well, so what about this event? I haven't heard about it before. I didn't know that this was going to happen, but as far as the weekend, you could write down the information for phone number if we have to call Axiom or whatever, but go ahead and write it down for me and bring it in when you can, and then we'll clarify that. Tell me a little bit about what you've been doing. I heard that your book is going to be brought out in paperback. Is this true? You mean true hallucinations? Yes. It's already out. Out in paperback again? Yeah, I've been doing all kinds of different crazy things, not that high profile. I was in a Portuguese science fiction movie with Robert Anton Wilson and Rudy Rucker, not to be playing soon at a theater near you, and I just had released a video called Metamorphosis in which Ralph Abraham and Rupert Sheldrake and I kid around for a while, and that was lots of fun. These days, what I'm really interested in is maintaining a very large website. I'm educating myself to be a webby, and I have a very large and fun website that I'd like people to visit. Would it be all right to give them? Sure, I'd love you to tell them. I've been looking at it, and it is fun. All right, here's the URL for the Terrence McKenna website. It is, of course, http://www.levity.com. That's really my fantasy, is to live out in Hawaii with high technology in the rainforest and to build a kind of cigar store Indian version of myself and my ideas that people can relate to and wander around in and leave comments. We're going to put the time wave on in a Java application. We're building a chronological database. I'm very bullish on the web these days. Well, if you haven't gotten tuned in listeners to the web, you haven't had a chance to check out some of the wonderful things that are going on, maybe this will be the reason that you'll do it. We're always encouraging people, and we're always giving out these outrageous addresses like the one you just gave. I'm waiting for this young, clever person right out of school, probably, who's going to come up with a shorthand for all of our incredible addresses. The information about your weekend, and I know many people are going to be interested if they haven't gotten the flyer from Axiom Saturday.
 and Sunday. It's going to be at the old Paramount Ranch Theater, but to get information you should call Axiom at 1-800-762-9466. That's 1-800-762-9466. Let's go ahead and take a phone call here from somebody calling in on line A. Hi, are you there? Yeah, hi Pamela. Hi. I just want to give you some astrological information. Uranus went into Aquarius, which it rules, in January, January 12th, and it's now retrograde along with Mercury, Jupiter, and Neptune, and Venus goes retrograde later this month, so there's a lot of that kind of energy happening. And when we talk about this, a lot of people always go, oh no, I don't want to hear about this, but what does retrograde mean? Well, retrograde is a review time, it's a transition between the old pattern that existed with the planet, planet representing a function, and it's a transition so that it can be sorted out, reviewed, and internalized so that when it goes direct later, you can start operating with a new kind of relationship to the function. Well, so that's basically what's happening. I think what you're describing is a shift of gears. Yes, absolutely. Uranus, of course, is very consistent with what you're talking about with the timeline being that Uranus always brings about transformation and change through disruption, disorder, and also illumination. It acts like thunder and lightning which illuminates the horizon and then you have to go find out what it's all about, or it acts like an earthquake which shakes everything up and breaks down the foundation so you have to rebuild from scratch. Well, for both of these systems to be right, they have to be consistent with each other. My theory is fairly conservative in that all it says is where the novelty should cluster and where habit and conservative retention of pattern is more likely to dominate, but I've noticed before that there are very close correlations between astrological gestalts of situations and the situation with the time wave. Yes, for me it all issues from the same source. It's just different patterns and different ways of points of focus that you can derive information from. Absolutely. Right on. Thank you. Hi, you're on the air. Oh, hi. Great to hear you there. I'd like to encourage all the listeners out there to call our Congress members and Senators and complain about what the VA is doing. Yes. It's a good time to call right now and tomorrow morning. I would appreciate that as well, and I would also add that if alumni of UCLA are concerned that the university they went to seems to be going down the wrong road, it would be very useful for people associated with UCLA to let the Office of Management of Public Affairs know what they think. Thanks, Terrence. Good luck. Thank you. Hope to see you at the get-together. Bye-bye. And you're encouraging everybody to go ahead and come out Friday night, wherever it's going to be. I'm having an event Friday night, and if I were a betting man, I'd bet that it'll be at Wooster, and if I lose that bet, I'll apologize from the stage of Griffin Commons. That's Wadsworth, but that's okay. Wadsworth. Wadsworth. There you go. Wadsworth. And Griffin Commons is the new building in the dorm area. Yeah. For those of you who might be like me 20 years ago at UCLA. Hi, you're on the air. That's me? Yeah. I wanted to tell you that what UCLA is doing is just kindling more interest in Terrence, who I think is utterly magnificent, and I wanted to say that I've been lamenting to all my friends that this has been the worst week that I can remember in years. I can't think of anything that hasn't gone wrong, and I ask everybody, where's the moon? So what it really is is Aquarius, Uranus in Aquarius, and Uranus is the planet of accidents and sudden happenings and breaking down and starting over just like the man said, and retrograde means that when you make a mistake, you've got to do it over. That means step back and leap forward or step further back, and this is really, you hit it right on the head, Terrence. This has been the week. I can't imagine anything more that could happen, and everybody I've talked to, I haven't talked to a soul that hasn't experienced the same thing. So it's all relative, it all relates, and I'm surprised you're not into astrology because, you know, it's just one of those spokes in the wheel, and it gives you another angle, and it's really very revealing if you could just get into it. It's very easy, it's all analogy, and it's very important to understand, and I think anybody that's going into the new age or the new era, the enlightened era, should understand astrology. It's a method of self-awareness and self-consciousness raising, in other words, to understand your own character and your potentials, et cetera. Anyway, I just wanted to thank you for being here. I'm really missing you, that you're not here more often, and hope you come back soon again. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. Thanks very much. Yeah, and a good time to become political, it sounds like, too. Hi, you're on the air. Hi, I want to give the UCLA main number, it's 310-825-4321. I called, asked to be connected to the Chancellor's office, not knowing what office to go to, and they took my complaint and said that somebody would get back to me about it. Good. Good, that's great. Thank you. Okay, bye. Again, you can join in with the conversation. This is Pamela Burton, you're listening to KPFK Los Angeles at 90.7 on your FM dial. My guest today, Terrence McKenna, there was an article about you in the Times. I have not seen it. It was, I guess, last week that they ran something in the calendar. Did they say how wonderful you were and how you were coming to town to enlighten us all? Well, they said what a wild man I was. I think probably that article is what started this bonfire. Let's just say that it could have gone deeper and could have been broader. I'm sure the guy who wrote it was an enthusiast, but I think he scared somebody to death in the VA. But it stressed my concern over psychedelics and my concern for legal reform and my lack of respect, I suppose, for the ordinary professional channels of discourse. I mean, I have felt that we have wonderful psychedelic researchers, people like Dave Nichols at Purdue, my brother, Sasha Shulgin. The science is well under control. If the government would stop repressing it and stop propagandizing this issue. And so my role is gadfly and I'm comfortable with it. And I think there should be more people holding the establishment to account and just simply pointing out the absurdity of their attitude in these matters. We need research and we need education and we need reform. And if that message threatens the integrity of the United States government, as the VA claimed it did in canceling this thing, then things are far out of kilter and we need to redress that. Let me invite you to call in and have a discussion again and join our discussion here at KPFK. We're at 818-985-5735-985-KPFK. I just saw the new documentary on hemp. You know, we're so far from even being able to accept the importance of that and then here, you know, you had the military involved, hemp for victory and of course destroying all the films that were made by the war department, I would assume at that time. You know, we're so far from using that which would make such a difference to this planet right now. You know, now we have the new gasoline additive going into the air in some of the states. You know, it does seem like they are so far into Neanderthal, you know, thinking or, you know, because of the corporations and the profits that the corporations would stand to lose. We're so far from even addressing that issue. You know, it's gruesome to think. I want to give you a chance to talk a little bit more and defend yourself in terms of this whole thing about taking drugs, etc., but let's take another call from a listener. Listen, Terrence, a couple of years ago, I talked to you on the Roy Tuckman show about, I wanted you to turn me on to science fiction. I'd never read it. And you were very nice enough to give me the name of William Gibson and a guy named Ian Watson. The two of them, I find Gibson to be terrific. Watson, not so good. I wonder if you could give me a few more. Try Neil Stephenson or Stephenson. He wrote Snow Crash and the Diamond Age. And try the short stories of Lucius Shepard, especially a book called The Jaguar Hunter and other stories. Lucius who? Shepard. Okay. And then if you want to go for something a little gritty and not terribly optimistic, but very interesting, try The Noon. What I'm looking for is literature. Try VRT, V-U-R-T, by Jeff Noon. Hang on, hang on.
 Definitely take a look at Love and Sleep by John Crowley. N-O-O-N-E? N-O-O-N. Jeff Noon, Vert, V-U-R-T. I got Vert. And what's the last one? Love and Sleep by John Crowley. John Crowley. And of the group, how many are English? None. They're all American? Gibson's Canadian, you knew that? Yes. Crowley. Now the other thing is, and then I'll hang up and kind of get your answer off the air. I called up Roy one night and I said, where is Terrence? Because you used to come on rather regularly and it was terrific. I mean, two or three hours each of your taped talks. Actually, there is another one. Where can we get your tapes of your talks? Where can you get the tapes of my talks? Yes. Well, Sound Photosynthesis in Mill Valley is an outlet. Okay. Oh my God. We have a few in the Pacific already. You have a place in Berkeley. I think really the place, Mystic Fire Video out of New York City has the newer stuff. They have that thing, surfing on Finnegan's Wake and riding the range with Marshall McLuhan and this metamorphosis video that I mentioned. They have a very interesting catalog of other material, too. You should actually check them out. What's the name of it again? Mystic Fire Video in New York City. All right, and the other is Sound Photosynthesis. Right. Okay, and the last thing is, as I said, I called up Tuckman one night and I said, what happened to Terrence? And his answer, which I won't repeat. Okay, so let's not go into that. No, I don't intend to, but I just wonder, can you give me in a kind of easy way what the deal is and is there a chance of you getting back on the long format as it were? And I'll hang up and thank you both very much. You're welcome. Well, I think the short answer to that question is, like lots of people, he just got sick and tired of me. Too many of those weird stories in the middle of the night. Which puts him in a lot of good company. Hi, you're on the air. Yeah, hi, Terrence. I've been listening to you for probably over a decade now. And I just want to say it's funny. I was watching your webpage and realized about this period being such a special period. And I was looking towards the news and not seeing, as you said, any real catastrophes going on besides the usual amount. And I just want to tell you, in my own life, amazing things are going on. Are they good things? They're great things. Oh, wow. So the shift of perspective is what I needed. And I wasn't even looking at it, but thank you very much. Yeah, thank you. I mean, it's more pleasing to me to hear that the novelty wave is working in people's personal lives than to hear that it is foretelling catastrophes and upheaval. I don't think it does foretell catastrophe and upheaval. I think it foretells change and innovation. And then how one reacts to that dictates whether it's liberating or terrifying. And when was the period to begin? Well, it begins with what I call a plunge, meaning a sudden move downward into novelty. That began at the end of February, and it ended four or five days ago. But now we're at the bottom of this trough where it's very novel, and it's just going to stay very novel on into the late fall. The lowest point of habit, in other words, the most novel point, is the last ten days, last six or seven days. But the next two or three weeks will only be slightly less novelty dense, and then it will slowly, slowly climb the hill back into habit over the next four or five months. Well, I hope this foretells a good fun drive, because that's what we're about to begin tomorrow. I would think this is good for a fun drive. I think community efforts will feel a wind in their sails. This is a time to build unity, to organize and launch things. As the astrologer said, this is the time of a shifting of gears, and I think the energy will run in a more smooth direction as we settle into this. Would this explain why my significant other has been out creating a Garden of Eden in our backyard for the last few weeks? I can't get him to come in. Maybe he knows something we don't know. This is really gorgeous, but what is going on? Hi. You're on the air with Terrence McKenna. Oh, hi. I've got the phone numbers in Washington if people want to call their representatives or senators. All right. That's good community work. What is it? The House of Representatives switchboard is 202 Area Code 225-3121. Okay. And the Senate is 202 Area Code 224-3121. And it's actually really interesting and pretty enjoyable to talk to people on the staff there, so I highly recommend people try it out. Yeah. Let me add to that that the person most likely to be able to make a difference at the federal level is this Senator Paul Wellstone. I think he's the senator from Minnesota, and he is known to be very liberal, and he is on the Senate Oversight Committee for the Veterans Administration, so they are actually directly answerable to his Senate committee. And if people would contact his office, I think that's probably a very effective single phone call to make. Just call the switchboard, and I'll put you through to the office. Great. Good luck. Thank you. And again, for those of you who might be just tuning in, you're listening to KPFK Los Angeles at 90.7 on your FM dial. This is Pamela Burton, and in studio with me today is Terrence McKenna for the Pacifica Radio Archive Hour. And if I can just plug, we do have a few Terrence McKenna tapes in our archive that I love to share with listeners on the Archive Hour every so often. Of course, every time I play something, people call me and say, oh, you've got to play some more, you've got to play some more. But, you know, you're in there with competition with people like Huxley and Buckminster Fuller, so there's some pretty stiff competition for airtime. And is what you've got old shows that I did at Pacifica Outlets? Is that what it is? It was a couple of the things that we did when we were doing fundraising. I think we have the restaurant when you did my little restaurant in Glendale many years ago, remember? Well, so that's all unique material. That's not available anywhere else. So people should know that they can support the station and get rare material that's undistributed by coming straight to Pacifica. Yeah. If you'd like to join us in our conversation here, we're at 818-985-5735. That's 985-KPFK. Did want to mention, this is still available, this wonderful CD space, Time Continuum, with you on it. Oh, yeah. Right, from Caroline Records. I've played that before. That's always a lot of fun. We have some Terrence talking on there. I think with the multimedia building up, especially like we talk about the web page, of course, we can talk about the new websites that are starting to spring up, the virtual reality sites, where you actually go in and walk through the doors and have a great time. Your kind of work, I mean, that's what I'm envisioning for our archive, is that we will have available to people who call up our site the audio that will be accompanied by some pretty amazing video work. Again, a lot of the youngins always have to give them credit because they are doing some beautiful things visually. Yeah, well, as bandwidth expands, the web is going to become much more of an interactive and, as you say, virtual environment. I'm learning all this stuff. This is where my heart is these days. I don't want to have to depend on other people to implement things for me. I've discovered learning the software is like mental calisthenics. I mean, you really do get buffed up intellectually if you can run Ray Dream Designer and render 3D objects and embed them in VRML. It's a great way to relate to your children. Oh, yeah, because they're usually three steps ahead. Right. Hi, you're on the air here with Terrence and Pam. With thanks to the previous caller, there is an 800 number for the Congressional Switchboard. All right. Give us that. That's 800-962-4972-3524. Okay, great. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate all the help we can get on this. Hi, you're on the air. Hi, hello. I wanted to talk to Terrence. Oh, you're talking to him. Hi there. How are you doing? I'm fine, thank you. Terrence, you know, I've heard of you off and on for years, but I really don't know that much about you. What could I pick up at the bookstore that I could read to find out who you are and what you're all about? Well, I wrote a book called The Archaic Revival that has a whole bunch of essays so that you don't have to take me in one enormous...
 must go. And it's maybe not as scientific or as elegant as a book I wrote called Food of the Gods, which is specifically about psychoactive plants and the role of plants and drugs in shaping social institutions. It's basically a study of drugs throughout history. So either one or both, why not, of those books would definitely give you a handle on what my thing is all about. Okay, so that's Archaic Revival and Food of the Gods. Yes, and Archaic Revival is from Harper, San Francisco, and Food of the Gods is Bantam. Okay. Can you tell me more, since I just tuned in, can you give me kind of an idea or background on what you're referring to in terms of this system that you're describing? It's a fractal algorithm that is scaled against calendrical time, and it produces output somewhat like a stock market record, in other words, a rising and falling line. But the hypothesis is that the quality that this thing is describing is what I call novelty. And I take that term from the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. My idea is that time is a kind of struggle between two elemental impulses, if you will, and one I call habit and the other novelty. And in every situation, whether it's a dynastic struggle or the collision of two subatomic particles, there will be a struggle between habit and novelty that can be graphically portrayed in this way. And so what this really is, is a mathematical theory of history that tries to show that history is a natural process, fractally embedded in other natural processes, and that in principle, the topological structure of time can be known. The future cannot be predicted in total. That would involve predestination, which contains some philosophical paradoxes. But the shape or the contour, as it were, of future time can be predicted mathematically with this theory. And then, of course, what all the shouting is about is we're now going through a period that is a test for this theory, because it's saying that high novelty should cluster right in this part of time that we're living through. And so then, of course, this sparks debate. Is it happening? Isn't it happening? And what would it look like if we recognized it? One more question. I'll let you go. The two books that you just suggested for me, Reena, does that have information regarding to the system that... Well, if you really want to go to bedrock on the system, then the book you want is called The Invisible Landscape. And I didn't mention it because it is intellectual calisthenics, for sure. That's where the mathematics is. That's where the argument is unhurried and very complete. And if you really want to critique the theory or even advance it, that's the place to go. And that's also a Harper, San Francisco. One last thing, though, just came to mind. What sparked this concept? Has it just been something that's brewing inside of you all these years, or what was it? You're a wonderful caller. You're giving me an excuse to name everything I ever published. Well, if you really want to know the answer to that question, you must read True Hallucinations also by me. And that tells the human story, the saga of what it was like to develop this idea and bring it forward. Since 1971, I've been involved in this. Great. OK, well, thank you very much. It's been a pleasure. It's a pleasure talking to you. I've always wanted to ask you how chaos theory fits in with it. Well, the time wave is a subset of chaos theory that the time wave is a fractal curve on two levels. And many chaotic processes such as signal devolution or noise reduction ratios and stuff like that exhibit fractal properties. And so does the time wave. So the evaluation of the time wave is properly a concern for chaos theorists and what are called dynamicists in mathematical. Which has really radically changed, of course, electronics rather than going with, you know, the on-off belief. We've now got it in between. You know, we can look at those spaces in between. Well, the realization that nature is, as the mathematicians say, self-similar across scale is the most penetrating insight into nature since Greek mathematics. I mean, that explains why particles spinning around the nucleus of an atom and a solar system and a galaxy, three objects on enormously different scales operating under completely different laws, why they have similar appearance. This self-similarity across scales shows us that nature is made of subunits that are within subsets of themselves, within subsets of themselves, and that nature is an infinite regress down toward the particulate quantum level and upward toward the astrophysical level. I just want to remind you that you can call in and participate in our conversation here at 818-985-5735, 985-KPFK. It is KPFK. This is Pamela Burton with Terrence McKenna in studio. Hi, you're on the air. Yes, I just got finished reading a book called Nano by Ed Regis, speaking of the work of Eric Drexler. And I just wondered if you would comment on that a bit. Sure, I'd be happy to. I don't know the book you mentioned, but I certainly know the work of Eric Drexler. He wrote The Engines of Creation and some other books, and is the great proponent of nanotechnology, which, as perhaps not all listeners know, is a technology that seeks to work below a billionth of a meter. In other words, to build machines as small as molecules and to assemble them to human engineering specifications. When I listed the outbreaks of novelty in the last 60 days, I didn't mention, because I didn't want to have to explain what nanotechnology was, that the nanotechnologists are very excited because a key part of their program is to build what is called a nanoassembler. This is the little unit that actually moves the molecules around and connects them up. And in the last 60 days, there has been major defining and significant progress in this area. So it's very hard to imagine a nanotechnological world. The book I mentioned to the caller who asked about science fiction, the book by Neil Stephenson or Stephenson called The Diamond Age, is a wonderful, heartful effort to imagine a nanotechnological world, a world where the population of China is fed on rice that is produced out of matter compilers. The holy grail of nanotechnology is this matter compiler and essentially it does to matter what a silicon graphics workstation does to an image. In other words, it makes it any way you like it. So that's nano and that's part of novelty and thanks for your question. And will it then get into your dreams the way the silicon graphic monitors do? Every time I look at something on a silicon graphics monitor, I'm just like, for days, I can't dream of anything else, but incredible resolution and... Well, one of the uses suggested for nanotechnology somewhat facetiously was that you could have these little electronic mites that you combed into your hair and every day they would creep out to the end of each hair, measure its length, and cut it off. So you'd have a permanent haircut maintained by nanomites from Clarol. Hi, you're on the air. Hi again, Terrence. This is Daniel Nervine. I caught you yesterday on AirTalk. Congratulations. Shooting two for two here. I don't know if I phrased my question to you as thoroughly as I could have. What's your current model for human migration out of the biosphere or the duplication of the current biosphere? Well, I guess if you mean current model, you mean between space travel and some kind of nanotechnological out-of-the-body download into circuitry kind of scenario. So do you want to take your body into space or do you want to be downloaded? Well, how about being downloaded into a spaceship? Then you could travel at very fast speeds without the fear of deceleration or acceleration smearing out that little...
 part of you that was biology. I don't know. I follow all of this. There is a gap in futuristic fantasy in the sense that a lot of people talk about downloading consciousness into circuitry and, in fact, I don't think anybody has a clue as to how that would be done or what it would look like or what it would feel like. Plus, it would be destructive to the original, you would think. You would only have this copy that thinks it's you. That's right. So I don't know. I'm not sure in my little list of things I did mention antimatter. Antimatter, when brought in contact with matter, has an energy conversion coefficient of 100%. It is the way you would drive ships the size of Manhattan out to the stars at sublight speed. Maybe that's coming faster than most people think. Unless there's a propulsion breakthrough, space remains agonizingly difficult to reach, very expensive and very much in the hands of the military industrial complex. I mean, there are asteroids pretty close, and with V2 almost style technology, you could possibly mount a 49er type asteroid prospector mission. Well, but it's what happens when you get there. It's the support and the telemetry and knowing the redundancy of your systems is sufficient that you're not going to be a crispy critter. That's all very tricky. I'd like to remind the audience I'm speaking today with Terrence McKenna. We have a few moments left, so if you want to give us a call, call us at 818-985-5735, 985-KPFK. Terrence is going to be appearing at a weekend event. Gosh, I wish I had time for this. It's Saturday and Sunday at the Old Paramount Ranch Theater, beginning at 10 a.m. in the morning. For information about the event, you should call Axiom at 800-762-9466. That is the organization that's been putting together your tour and carrying everything off. They will tell you that you can get tickets, I believe, from Ticketmaster for the Friday night event, or you can just go and show up. We're hoping we're going to get everybody in, and that will be at UCLA. I don't have any problem with that. If people want to call me, if your organizers can call me tomorrow, let me know what the final decision is, whether it's going to be Wadsworth, because of course that's one part of the campus, whereas the Commons is over in another section, so there could be a lot of confusion, unfortunately, but this is part of what we're going to work with, the novelty of it. The novelty of it, and then let me say one final thing, just to keep from going to jail, and that is, in case you weren't paying attention, this is not a UCLA-sponsored event. They were very keen to have me say that on the air, and I'm very proud to say it. It is not a UCLA-sponsored event. They're just providing the space. And so I would ask everybody who believes in free speech, who's interested in showing the strength of the psychedelic community and supporting freedom of public dialogue on these matters, to show the flag tomorrow night and come out to UCLA, and we'll make a little history, and we'll have a very fine discussion. And again, for those of you who might not be familiar, you're interested in going to a bookstore and taking a look at some of the things that Terrence has written, Invisible Landscape, Food of the Gods is probably my favorite of your writings, Archaic Revival, and True Hallucinations is also a lot of fun. Great summer reading. If you want to participate in the protest, you should call Paul Wellstone. Again, he's on the Senate Oversight Committee, and you can reach him at the 800 number for the Congressional Switchboard is 800-962-3524, 962-3524. You should be calling your senator and your congressman, your house representative every week anyway. There's so many things that we need to be dealing with. And of course, those of you with working assets, you get to make free phone calls on Monday, so it might be good to take advantage of that. Also want to let you know that Terrence McKenna has a website. It's lots of fun. I've visited. I've had a chance to visit a couple times and to write. You got to write this down. Of course, these are these incredibly long addresses. URL is HTTP. That's pretty. Now people are getting used to that slash slash colon slash slash W. W. W. Dot levity dot com dot E. S. C. H. A. T. O. N. Slash and slash and another slash one slash at the end. OK, that's great. So you can visit his website and see what he is up to. This is Pamela Burton for Pacifica Radio. I'm afraid we're running out of time and I'm sorry, those couple of last callers that wanted to get in. I'm sorry that we at this point are out of time. Let me just make sure that you all know. Again, Terrence will be speaking on Friday night as an event to the public. But then again, it's a weekend Saturday and Sunday at Paramount Ranch if you want to do that whole weekend. And again, that axiom phone number. I'm going to leave these numbers at our switchboard, too, so you can call and again, especially the your worldwide Web page. We'll leave that at the front switch board as well. But to get a hold of Axiom, call one eight hundred seven six two nine four six six. Thanks so much for coming in and being with me today. It's been a pleasure. I hope lots of people will come to this weekend and we will discuss the times we're living in and the forces that build them. And you've been great, Pam. You're always great. Thank you. Thanks so much to Marcia Caldwell, my board up and we'll be seeing you for a fun drive edition of this program tomorrow. Please support us. We so need everyone who listens to KPFK. You appreciate what we do here. We will begin that fun drive tomorrow morning at six o'clock or seven o'clock. I'm not quite sure. I'm sorry, but it will be running until the 25th. So do participate. Thanks so much. Pamela Burton saying goodbye.

Terence McKenna - Packing For The Long Strange Trip - Starwood XIV, 19 July 1994

Mushrooms are my thing, I mean, they enlightened me, they straightened me out, they love me. The way to do mushrooms is, the very first move, if you're interested in mushrooms, is, for God's sake, buy a scale, buy a scale. I mean, you wouldn't think that this would be considered such an exotic suggestion to people who are going to put their bodies and minds on the line, because people don't take enough. People do not take enough mushrooms. They take piss-ant amounts and then they claim that they're initiates. You must take a measured five dried grams on an empty stomach. Measured. And when you see what that is, you'll realize that, you know, you weren't even camped in the atrium, you were camped in the driveway. And mushrooms to my, in some ways, I mean, DMT is the most terrifying and astonishing thing in the universe, but it's very hard to know what to do with it. Psilocybin is your friend. It wants to teach. It will take you by the hand and forgive you and lead you and be with you. And it speaks. This is the amazing thing. And you're hearing this from, you know, somebody who graduated from Heidegger and F.H. Bradley. It speaks. No other psychedelic does that, in my experience. Occasionally a phrase will pop into your head on another substance that is like a gift, an aphorism. But I mean, psilocybin raves. It raves. And it has positions. I mean, you may not like psilocybin as a person. Because it is not, the astonishing thing about the psilocybin entity, to my mind, and I get good confirmation of this, is it is not very earthly. I mean, it wants to show you machines the size of Manhattan in orbit around alien stars. It wants to talk about the sweep through of the da-da-da-da, which happened before the Earth cooled. And it, you know, has seen the empires of the Rull out at the rim and all the rest of it. And it's very puzzling, this cosmic, galactarian tone. Because then you switch over to ayahuasca, which is literally just a twist of the molecule, just the tiniest tweaking of the molecule. And suddenly it's about childbirth, rivers, the land, the feminine, looking inside your body, curing diseases, feeling, telepathy, communication. It could hardly be more different. And yet, chemically, these things are like two sides of the same coin. Well, but this against the law thing, let me talk a minute about that. How can it be against the law if you have it in every brain walking around? You're putting yourself at great legal risk. But, however, see, things like psilocybin and DMT, the reason they're illegal is because there was panic in California in 66. The California Assembly rammed through an anti-drug law in which all these things were named. But no medical or scientific data was offered to show there was anything wrong with them. Basically, they were guilty as charged because they caused hallucinations. Well, then, about three months later, the feds decided there needed to be a federal anti-hallucinogen law. And they simply imported the California statute directly into federal law. So it is conceivable that if one had enough money, and it takes a lot of money, you could force a re-examination of the drug laws by simply saying, number one, there is no scientific evidence that there's anything wrong with DMT. Number two, there's plenty of scientific evidence that DMT occurs normally in human metabolism. And how, therefore, can it be kept illegal? But it takes... Huh? Unless the plant is specifically named, but the attorney general, at his own discretion, can add those plants to the scheduled list without asking anybody. Yeah. No. No, well, it's economically driven. I mean, if you had DMT, you could sell a mountain of it. You don't get many repeat customers because if you sell somebody a gram, that's 20 hits. Most people set half of it aside for their great-grandchildren. This is not a drug of abuse. Let me point that out to you. It's sort of a drug of anti-abuse. I know people who say, when you ask them, what's your favorite drug, and they say, oh, DMT, I love it, love it. And you say, well, when did you do it last? Well, 1968. I'm still processing, yes. Johembane. Is that what you asked about? I'm not sure that Johembane is an MAO inhibitor. You should look it up in the Merck manual, and it always does. There are many things which are weak MAO inhibitors. The easiest source for an MAO inhibitor, though, is the pergamon harmala, and also, there is a plant in North America... Oh, no, I'm sorry. It also is pergamon harmala. Pergamon harmala grows over vast areas of New Mexico, Nevada, and it yields a bright yellow dye, which is actually the harmine itself. It is the dye chemical. Well, we should certainly talk about casualties and dangers. Addiction doesn't really figure in here in the ordinary sense of, like, opiate and nicotine addiction. You know, cannabis is the most addicting of these minor and near psychedelics, and it's only psychologically addicting. I mean, I found this out because a couple of years ago, I actually quit for two months after not drawing an unstoned breath for 25 years, and all that happened was that I read more, and it's not clear that that's my problem. But danger we need to talk about, and that brings up the question, how should one do these things? How can you do it and gain maximum benefit and minimum wear and tear on your psyche and your body? The first thing is inform yourself. Inform yourself. The first stop on the psychedelic trip is the library. There are very, very deep books on these subjects, on the anthropology, the pharmacology, the psychology, the quantum mechanics of drug activity. Inform yourself. And then it's not about taking every drug in the book, and, you know, people reel them off, say, well, I did junk, I did this, I did that. It's no points. You don't get points for that. What you have to do is, and here's a piece straight out of Castaneda, you have to find your ally. You have to find what works for you. And if you take a drug or a plant and you have a horrible experience, you don't really need to go back and back. The other thing is, danger lies in the direction of combinations. These are called synergies by pharmacologists. And if you, if your idea of a big...
 evening is to you know shoot a hundred milliliters of ketamine and then drop some MDMA and a little to CB an hour later and then bring on some acid of undetermined provenance and so forth and say well then and I say well how was it say hey it was far out but the point is this can never be reproduced and these things are very dangerous they synergize each other in unexpected ways I mean my god if psilocybin and DMT have never been studied do you think their relationship to Romal are and Nardil has been looked at very carefully I don't think so then how to take it and I I represent a faction on that I believe that you should take it with us as how can I put it with as little company as you can stand basically a lot of people like group work I don't and but then I don't like groups generally I mean I'm basically a loner and I if I take psychedelics with somebody I worry I worry about them and and I stand it keeps me on the surface and I've had many psychedelic experiences where in the middle of it it has passed through my mind gee I'm sure glad nobody is here to see this because I'm sure it would alarm them and then we'd have a crisis on our hands so my style I mean I take I'll take anything based in a low dose and hang out if something interesting is going on but the serious stuff goes on in darkness in silence and that people go through the roof they mean you don't even listen to music that's right in darkness in silence in a comfortable space and that may mean in your apartment in Manhattan or it may mean up a tree in Yosemite whatever your thing is and then I I always use cannabis cannabis is your navigation tool your reality check your everything I roll up the bombers and I lay them out in front of me and I have my mojo bag and a few things like that I I from the moment I take it I'm in sacral space and this isn't even a rule followed in the Amazon I mean it totally blew my mind in some ayahuasca circles people would sit around talking and talking then everybody would take ayahuasca there would be a sacrum ceremonial moment everybody would take the ayahuasca and then yak yak yak and motorcycle parts and what are the missionaries up to and who's screwing who and yak yak yak and then at 30 minutes on the dot the shaman would begin to whistle everybody would shut up and within a minute we'd be gone but the way I like to do it and this is a good Catholic method for those of you who are recovering Catholics I take it and then I sit in my space and I carry out what in catechism class we were taught is called an examination of conscience this is where you think about all the ways you've screwed up and all the people you've screwed over and you basically anticipate a bad trip is what it is you you work you say what is the worst thing that could happen to me on this trip based on my current state of my psyche and my relationships with other people well by the time this stuff actually begins to work you've dealt with that and and you know some people say they take mushrooms and within 20 minutes we were tripping hard tripping hard I don't understand what that is about it takes an hour and 20 minutes on the dot it always has I don't expect it to ever come faster and I get into a kind of a zone where it's like it's nibbling at the edges but it's not quite manifest and then I smoke the first bomber and usually that brings it in that brings it in and I also I speak to it I speak to it I invoke it I suppose and in my own way I I don't know if it will pass Gardner Ian muster but I say to it I say show yourself show yourself and it's very at that point it's very erotic it's it's like a it's like a veil dance is what it is it is a veil dance the girlfriend in the other dimension the mushroom once I said to it to her I almost said once I said to her I said what should I call you and she said call me Dorothy so I invoke it and it comes it comes and then and then we're off and sometimes it's easy and loving and sometimes it's different I remember one very epic trip I had where I had tossed out a big compost pile from growing mushrooms that years ago in another country actually it was a past life I'm now recalling but anyway I tossed out this stuff and this thing grew this humongous mushroom and I had taken mushrooms the previous Saturday I had taken a full dose which is five dried grams so I thought I want to take mushrooms again this Saturday but I I think I may have picked up a tolerance so I'll just take nine grams instead and this is where the learning takes place the mistakes treasure your mistakes so the thing it's like I'm sitting there and suddenly I realized oh my god it's coming at me it's a hundred miles wide it's ten miles high and it is rolling toward me it looks and and I barely had time to lay down that's how I said and a boy said you know get prepare the storm is about to hit the beach and and I laid down and it was just it was like a tornado hitting and at one point I opened my eyes and the there was this woman in a full bondage get up with you know piercings and rubber panties and the whole thing and she and I was lying there between her legs she was standing upright and and she put her face right down to mine and she said is it strong enough for you asshole to which I replied yes and she said and then she said they say it helps to close your eyes cowboy and I later in thinking about that trip I realized the reason the goddess the reason the mushroom addressed me as cowboy is because that's most people mushrooms have met have been cowboys and cowgirls because they're the people who follow the cows and most people have encountered this thing in the past you know Maria Sabina the mushroom shamanists of Oaxaca claimed not to have been initiated she claimed that as a child left to watch the sheep and the cows she had been hungry and had gotten into eating mushrooms so and I haven't lost my thread this is a safety course I haven't forgotten that once you get launched out in there then there are tricks for navigation and the two tricks that are indispensable number one I've already told you have cannabis ready because if you get into a place that you don't like you can you can get out of there by just taking a toke or two the other thing is if you get into a place you don't like chant don't do what most honkies do which is scrunch assume the fetal position I'll I can stand this how many hours is this going to last you don't do that sit up take a breath and belted out drumming to but I really think it's important to oxygenate your body it's very important to move the breath through and there are hard places if there weren't hard places people wouldn't be so terrified of this stuff so when you get through a heart to a hard place first of all don't
 be an idiot. Don't abandon yourself to fear just because somebody put something ugly in front of you. I mean, people put stuff that's ugly in front of you every day and all you say is, yuck. So this also works there. I mean, there are strange places and we each have our own private hells. I mean, there's a place I go to nearly on every Ayahuasca trip that I call the Meat Locker. And, you know, the less said about it, the better. But every time I feel it begin to swerve, I say, uh-oh, time to fire up a little sinsimia here. Yeah, sing the No Meat Locker song. Yeah. I fast, I don't call it fasting, I just don't eat for six hours. Empty your stomach. And then the other thing is, your stomach should be empty throughout. And then at the end of the, the way I do it is I usually start about eight at night. I'm alone always. And I go till one. And by one, it's over. And then what I do is I eat a bowl of granola or something like that. Don't sleep on an empty stomach. Don't, because then you'll wake up the next morning raw and rocky. And it's not that the mushroom did that, it's that you slept with a protein, with a protein that did. So, so then eat your favorite food at the end of the trip. MDMA is a cyclicized amphetamine. It's a, it's a, a, what are called empathogens. They're drugs which encourage exchange of feelings and that sort of thing. Under rare circumstances, you can squeeze a kind of wobbling hallucination out of it. But it's not, it's, it's purpose I think is different. It's for sorting out relationships, assisted psychotherapy, and having a good time. But it, it would be crazy to take MDMA as a hallucinogen because it's like entering a bicycle in a Ferrari race, you know. They're just much superior. And let me say about this, I mean, everything is my personal bias here. A lot of people have said you're a hallucination nut. You're obsessed with hallucination. I freely admit it. The reason I was underwhelmed by LSD, I mean I liked it and it was certainly engaging and so forth, but I could never hallucinate the way I wanted to. I'd read Havelock Ellis. I wanted to see, you know, the phosphorescent palaces, the naked maidens, the silk brocades, the alien worlds, vision. And LSD, deep thoughts about things, funny ideas, strange experiences, hard to get vision until you smoke black Bombay hash at the top of the trip. That works. But I will defend my obsession with vision. I think the world wants to be seen. I think Blake was right that the divine imagination is something beheld. And for me, the visions are the proof that this is not my mind. And the visions are the proof that this is not simply chemical chaos in the nervous system. I mean, how could chemical chaos have an enormous argument about what's written there? But if you and I both step into a place where a piece of sculpture is a piece of sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and I'm a sculpture, and if you and I both step into a place where a piece of sculpture is being exhibited, we may argue about what the piece of sculpture means, but we agree what it is. We see it. We see it, and when we communicate with each other and understand each other, we instinctively reach for visual metaphors. I see what you mean. Look here, fella. She painted a picture. His words were so beautiful. It means that we really associate meaning with seeing something, and I believe that we're on the brink of a transformation of how we communicate with each other, and I don't know whether we're going to require a prosthesis that is electronic or something like that, or whether we can invent drugs which will allow the cerebral cortex to switch its linguistic analysis from the audio channel to the visual channel. It's very suggestive that these tryptamines are in the new parts of the brain, and I think that we're on the brink of transforming our ability to communicate. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, what was said was that using LSD and having used DMT, one can begin to trip into DMT-like dimensions on LSD. This certainly seems reasonable to me. I haven't had that specific experience, but there is something you can do with psilocybin. Here's another technique if you don't like what's happening on a mushroom trip. Just say to it, be MDMA, and it will. No problem. You can say to it, be LSD, and it will. It has no problem. I didn't try that one. You want to be sure before you summon the genie that the agenda is clear. Let me say one more thing about this language thing, because I think nature is always our model, no matter how deep into technology we go, nature will provide non-toxic models. Well, it just so happens that in this area of communication, nature has provided a wonderful non-toxic model, and that is the way in which squids and octopi communicate. Squids and octopi, as you know from watching far too much TV, can change color, but you may think this is camouflage. It's not camouflage. Octopi change color in order to communicate. Octopi don't generate language. They are language. Think of an octopus. It's soft-bodied. It can fold and unfold itself like a dancer and expose various parts of its body very rapidly. It also can make its body tissue smooth and rubbery or rugose and rough, and it can undergo all these color changes, splotches, stripes, spreading pastels, so forth and so on. These behaviors of the octopus are under the genetic control of its linguistic intentionality. It doesn't make words. It becomes words, and when one octopus encounters another, by the mere act of beholding each other, they say, Aha, you haven't eaten recently. You're having too much sex. You've been traveling, and so forth and so on. The octopus becomes its thoughts. It wears language on its surface the way we wear our clothing, and this system of communication is so important to the octopus that those species that have evolved into the very deep parts of the ocean, the so-called abyssal octopi, where no light ever reaches, have evolved phosphorescent organs all over their bodies and eyelid-like membranes all over their bodies, so that in the absolute darkness of the abyssal ocean, they communicate by flashing grammar and syntax to each other across the abyssal depths. They are free in the imagination.
 And I think this is where we're headed. We are going to make that model of communication our model. Psychedelics, technology, and visionary magic will show how this can be done. No, you're right. The human face is like this. That's right. You see, no other animal has a face. A face is like a little piece of squid skin that we're wearing, where we can transmit all of these. Once I was in India, and I was cornered. This guy, I was loaded actually on mescaline, and this guy swam aboard my houseboat. And normally, I just would run these guys off, because they were thieves and beggars. But I was so loaded that I couldn't do anything but sit there. And this guy came up to me and sat down across from me and looked at me. And after a few minutes, he said, face is index of mind. And I said, Ranji, I can't be interrogated now. But it was this thing. He could see, face is index of mind. My mind was swirling visibly there. Well, I think we've come to the end of the road. I very much enjoyed being at Starwood. I consider myself a pagan. You haven't seen much of me, because I also consider myself a hermit. And how a hermit got stuck with preaching in the marketplace, I'm not entirely clear. But thank you very much for having me, and I hope to see you all downstream sooner or later. Thank you very much.

Terence McKenna - Permitting Smart People To Hope - June 1994

There's so much Concrescence of time and compression of historical development going on in the world right now that you can You can hardly Pick up a journal in your favorite field without Seeing that all paradigms are being challenged and this is happening regardless of You know the area you're working in it may be the design of solid-state circuitry it may be quantum mechanics or cosmology or Information theory they're simultaneously now going on so many breakthroughs in the in in the investigation of nature and mathematics that one of the themes of these Discussions will be how unpredictable the consequences are of all this knowledge flowing together No one is planning how these various technologies insights And tools are going to fit together and in a way it creates It creates Opportunity Because there is so much chaos because very small forces can exert major changes I'm sure you all know the cliche about the butterfly Whose wing beat starts the hurricane? I got a fax the day before I came down here saying that Interpol had put out an all-points bulletin for that very butterfly Was attempting to corner it and halt the hurricane season They do take this stuff seriously So Just I mean I would just to review some recent developments that may or may not be Related to each other, but they are certainly related in the sense that they are all occurring right now Some of you may have followed the detection of the top quark in a recent series of Experiments at at Shurn in Geneva. Well, this essentially ends an entire program of Nuclear and particle physics that's been carried on since the 20s now the the quark model of matter is Essentially complete in its more modest Formulation all the predicted particles have been detected there is good agreement between theory and theoretical formulation and this represents the culmination of an effort to come to grips with matter that's been underway since the Greeks and It essentially, you know in 1994 the the general sense is that it's now pretty well nailed down This is astonishing and to ends a whole Intellectual effort that as I say began with the Greeks gained momentum with Newton gained incredible Intellectual focus throughout the 20th century and is now completed It's the equivalent of the sequencing of the human genome in biology which is the next subject that I wanted to mention which is this project which was slated to be finished around 2020 is now probably going to be finished well before 2000 because once they got into it They discovered that it's like riding a bicycle the more you do it the easier it is to do and very very sophisticated computer-driven chemical Simulation techniques have been invented and the human genome is just filling up like a crossword puzzle day by day week by week as We speak Could you explain what that is? Oh, well Every organism in nature is specified by a unique sequence of chemical Labels called nucleotides and they are stored in the DNA and this nucleotide message in the case of human beings is like up to 20 million units long and it's basically the script for a human being Now whether you get you or me Depends on whether the switches are set in up-and-down positions, but all human beings have the same Gene sequence it's called and and so if you can sequence if you can determine the human genome you can Predict the occurrence of all kinds of hereditary diseases and You know have a kind of utopian approach to medicine where everyone throughout their entire life Knows what they are at risk for and in contemplating any possible pairing for procreation You know just down to a gnat's eyelash what the child's genetic predisposition for various diseases and enzyme deficiencies and this sort of thing well, so this is happening and at a startling pace Sure so if this is if you say that it's predetermined this is that like Do we have anything to say about it? I mean, can you like prevent then? Oh, yeah, you can definitely prevent because you see if you can locate where on the genome the defective Genie, how do you spell a genome? g-e-n-o-m-e If you can locate where in the genome the the problem is for any Genetic defect then you can design a repair gene that can Go in there and actually just scissor the bad piece out and put the good piece in and this is not science fiction This is being done in the laboratory now and it will It's happening the main point of what I'm talking about tonight is all these crazy far-out Flash-gordon things are well advanced and Yet and the other point Highly ignorant of each other so that the cross Fertilization process that is really going to make all this come into a kind of new paradigmatic order hasn't yet been revealed Okay, so other items And some of these range toward the oh wow remember ultimately this is just a laundry list of things on my mind The events that will occur in the vicinity of Jupiter in the third week of July of this year are Extraordinarily interesting from all kinds of points of view. Are you all aware of what I'm talking about? Okay in January an object was detected Breaking up under the tidal forces of Jovian gravity and this object was named Schumacher levy 9 and It has is now in about 25 pieces that are 3 to 5 kilometers in diameter each and the Newtonian mechanics of this decaying the system of orbits Dictates that between the 19th and the 26th of July of this year These objects will smash into the planet Jupiter on the dark side on the side Turned away from the earth at the moment of impact but because Well, it's a fascinating event for many reasons. First of all, it's going to churn up an Enormous amount of material from deep below the cloud tops of Jupiter and within six hours The parameter will turn into view of earth-based telescopes The other thing is these planet Crushing events these collisions of large objects in the solar system have a very interesting and not fully understood role in The formation of our own earth and the way the history of life has developed on it, for example, and this is the Next new thing. I wanted to talk about there has been a sudden coalescence of agreement in in planetary Geophysics over the past six months over a problem which may not have been bothering you but bothered me Which was where did the moon come from?
 And there have been, for hundreds of years, different theories. I mean, clear back to Laplace. One theory, Laplace noticed that galaxies and solar systems, everything condensed down out of dust, and he put, this is in the 1770s, put forth the very plausible theory that the moon simply was an aggregation of material in the same way that the earth was an aggregation of material when it formed around the earth. Well then there are problems with this, technical problems, it just doesn't check out. So then another theory that had its vogue was that the earth was spinning very rapidly in its early history, and a blob, actually it just separated off, a hot blob of stuff which went off into space. And finally, new techniques for analyzing Apollo rocks and stuff brought back from the moon and all kinds of conferences and so forth, they figured it out. And the answer is extraordinary, and none of the above. The answer is that 4.1 billion years ago, the earth was struck by an object the size of Mars, and that in this catastrophe, enough ejecta went into orbit around the planet to condense as the moon. It's remarkable that such a catastrophic and dramatic theory could get unanimous acceptance in the field of planetary science where all this stuff is most haggled over. But was the planet the size of Mars, if the earth wasn't Mars? No, it wasn't Mars, it doesn't exist. Its core has now sunk into the core of the earth, it had an iron core, it is now part of the earth, and the lightweight pyroxene ejecta formed the moon. And if you're interested in this, this month's Scientific American has it on the cover. A photo of the event. So just extraordinary revolution in theory, in a very fundamental matter, because some people claim that the moon was captured, and that it was captured as recently as 65 million years ago, and that the complexity of mammalian phylogeny is related to the presence of the moon, and now all that's out. The moon is very old, it emerged in this catastrophe basically at the moment of the solidification of the surface of the earth. It was a climactic event that came at the end of a series of asteroidal infalls that basically built the planet. So then, other things... How does that tie into this thing with Jupiter, then? Is that just to give us an idea of how that happened, or...? Yeah, that we've never had an opportunity to observe anything like this. The event, the extinction event which killed the dinosaurs, and created the beginning of the Mesozoic era, 65 million years ago, was not as energetic an event as this thing that's going to happen in July. It was very interesting to watch how the scientific press played this thing, because like Schumacher Levy 9 was discovered on January 9th, and the Bulletin of Astrophysics on the 12th broke the news to everybody who wasn't already following it on email or something. And they called it a once-in-a-hundred-million-year event, which... Interesting that this once-in-a-hundred-million-year event would occur at a moment when human beings have instruments on their way to Jupiter. So then, within a month, they had it down to once-in-a-million-year event. And now I think they're saying, nobody has any idea. This may be once every hundred years it happens. But it's very interesting. The explosion will be so large, and since it can't be directly seen by Earth-based telescopes, the energy release will be measured by measuring the flash of reflected light off the moons of Jupiter. In other words, they will rise in luminosity and then fall very suddenly as this explosion takes place on the backside. So that's that. Sort of in line with all of this, and with a kind of an Esalen spin on it, something very interesting that's been going on, if you're a fan of the history of science and ideas, is that in the last six months there's been a very interesting effort to look again at David Bohm's work. David Bohm is now dead, and I believe he taught here, or he visited here many times. In any case, his ideas are well-known here. And he was sort of always our physicist, our meaning the slightly flakier end of things. And for that reason, he was not taken seriously, as seriously as he should have been in the halls of physics. Well, then I think he died about 18 months ago. Well now, in Scientific American and in physical review letters, there have been long editorials saying that a problem which has haunted quantum physics throughout the 20th century could be solved by admitting that the Copenhagen School, which is Niels Bohr and Heisenberg and all those untouchable and godlike figures, to admit that they were actually wrong about something fundamental, and that David Bohm's quantum physics, which gives the same numerical results as theirs, is in fact a more elegant formulation. And what it is that is at issue here is something that everybody who has concerned themselves with quantum physics for 10 minutes has encountered, which is the famous uncertainty conundrum. Every schoolchild knows by now that you cannot determine the velocity and the absolute position of an electron at the same time. Because as you bring velocity into focus, absolute position smears out. As you bring absolute position into focus, velocity smears out. This is called the uncertainty principle. And probably more muddle-headed prose has been generated around this problem in physics in the last 70 years than in any other. Well, it turns out that if you go with David Bohm, there is no uncertainty. You can know the position and the speed, the velocity, with perfect certainty at the same moment of time. The problem is, and the reason why he was never taken seriously, is that all these quantum formulations carry with them certain metaphysical baggage that is hard for other theorists to accept. The impossible baggage that Bohm's theory carried was what is called non-locality, non-locality. This is the peculiar feature of nature which is built into Bohm's formulation of quantum physics, that any two particles ever associated with each other at some time in what we call the past maintain a magical and instantaneous connection with each other, no matter how far apart they are for the rest of their existence, and that this is not subject to the inverse square law that determines the speed, that slows the speed of light. This is some kind of magical property which is instantaneous. Well, this seemed so outlandish that it was just thought to prove on the face of it that Bohm was wrong, because they said, well, look at the consequences. If you were to accept this, this insane thing would be built in there. But now, because of what's called Bell's theorem, they are actually doing experiments which demonstrate, in the same way you demonstrate the charge of the electron or the speed of light, they're actually doing experiments which demonstrate that non-locality is real. You associate two electrons. You pass them through a grid of some sort which separates them. You capture one of them, determine its charge, flip it to its opposite charge, and having captured the other one, you notice that when you flip the charge on one, the charge on the other one automatically reverses instantaneously, and that these things behave as though they never left each other's presence.
 non-locality. Well, this sets the stage for a staggering realization. Because, if the universe is non-local in terms of information, then all the raving over the past 30 years about holographic universes and psychedelic plenums and the monadic, fractal, higher-dimensional akashic kuha, all that is suddenly, begins to gain vindication. And, okay, so that's all happening. Meanwhile, three doors down the hall in the branch of things marked information theory, they're realizing that there is a way to analyze physics so that what you get is that what we call matter is simply information in association with energy. That information associated with energy is matter. So then you go back to this other branch of understanding and they're saying that information is non-local. And then what that begins to sound like then is that matter also is non-local in some sense. And if you could download that into a technology, you could walk from here to Zanabu-Ganoubi without ever going through high vacuum. And that would be big news. You understand what I'm saying? Good. Yes, it would be reasonable to ask a question at this point. So how does the principle of non-locality come in to prove that you can determine position and velocity at the same time? Oh, it doesn't. It's simply that as a consequence of accepting the parts of his theory which allow you the absolute prediction of velocity and position, you get as a kind of you-can't-not-order-it side dish this non-locality thing. And when really a way of talking about non-locality is to say, and then this goes to a whole other branch of knowledge that's also just boiling at fever pitch, is to say, well, then what we're really saying is that the universe is fractal, that it's an enfolded set of values such that you can extract the whole story from any subset. And again, all of this, complexity theory, chaos dynamics, fractal mathematics, what's happening is that the computer is allowing us to go beyond the mathematical objects of Greek philosophy, which were, you know, what did we have? We had the cube, the perfect circle, the dodecahedron, so forth and so on, and then through the genius of Newton and Leibniz and that crowd, the infinite set of ellipses that we could extract from the section cone that allowed us to do calculus, that allowed us to do modern science. But that's sort of where it ended, you know, with Newtonian mechanics and then statistical mechanics to handle the quantum. But now, with chaos dynamics and fractal mathematics and complexity theory, we are actually producing mathematical models of nature that are more like nature than anything we've ever seen before. And it's, in a sense, the culmination of the holy grail of a certain branch of human thinking, that out of numbers and their relationships, which are, after all, objects in the human mind, whatever that is, comes this incredible close correspondence to nature, which is the most remotely removed and ontologically independent thing we know vis-a-vis the human mind. Okay, so that was a little pan to David Balm, and then moving through that, and going further, Ilya Prigozhin, who has also been to Esalen and had an influence on many people who taught at Esalen, and me among them, although I was just sort of like sharpening his pencils at that stage, who has already established his track record by winning the Nobel Prize for Physics by destroying the second law of thermodynamics, which was no small accomplishment, believe me, because there was no law of nature to emerge in the 19th century more tenaciously believed in than the second law of thermodynamics. And Prigozhin just showed that, you know, it was a generally true statement of a rather complex situation, in which actually sometimes it was bunk, and he secured that mathematically. That was twenty years ago. Now Prigozhin is coming forward with a theory that I modestly suggest sounds somewhat like my notion about time, that time is first of all not a construct of the human mind. It is in fact a property of the universe, like energy, like matter. It's a thang is what we're trying to say here. It's not an abstraction, and this is not the first time science has had to make this leap. I mean, the curved field, the electromagnetic field was at first thought to be some kind of weird mathematical contortion you had to go through to understand electricity, but couldn't possibly actually have anything to do with what it was. And then it was realized, you know, that it was actually a point-for-point description. So Prigozhin is beginning to say that time is a thing, and that therefore it has an arrow, and that complexity is conserved as you approach the present, which is what I've been saying year in and year out here for a while. I didn't call it complexity. I called it novelty and used Whitehead's vocabulary. But there is, you know, a very exciting convergence of intuitions here that seem, you know, really to hold the possibility of a whole new way of thinking about time and determinism and novelty and the build-up of structure in time. I'm understanding that your theory of novelty was that it was not conserved, but increasing. Well, what I mean by conserved is that its general tendency is to never slip back. In other words, once some novelty is achieved, it's tenaciously retained and it becomes instead the foundation for new novelty. And that's how novelty increases over time, by building on pre-established levels of novelty. So that, for instance, molecular structure, very novel at its inception, becomes ultimately the precondition for biology, a later arriving phase of novelty. And then culture builds on biology and so forth like that. So when you said that, what was the other term, not novelty, but pre-go... Oh, pre-go... Complexity. Complexity. Complexity is maintained as you get closer to the present? Yes, that complexity seems to be clustering near the present. Meaning this present or any present? No, this present. In other words, what he's saying, part of his breakthrough, is he's saying the arrow of time is real. It is, the universe is, from end to end, oriented in one direction. It isn't an artifact of human perception. This is a break with ordinary physics, which insists that all these transforms can be run backward in time as well as forward. He says no, and that's what I've been saying. My conception is that the cosmos is what I call a novelty-conserving engine, and that it, through a sort of a one-step, two-steps-forward, one-step-back process, marches ever deeper into novelty, and ever faster. That's the other thing that interests me, because I am now... I have a very palpable sense that time is accelerating, and that the convergence of some of these things we've been talking about is going to eventually lead to a discussion of what is the nature of time and experience. That in fact history does...
 seem to be ending. This sort of vague and murky intuition of religious ontology is now respectable in physics laboratories. And the presence of human culture on the planet at this incredibly advanced state of acceleration and novelty seems to indicate that, you know, we are making it impossible for ourselves to go anywhere but into another kind of cultural dimension. Well, which I guess leads me on one level to one of the other things which I wanted to talk about, which is, in a sense, the illusion of stability in social space, if there is one, if you're able to maintain the illusion of stability in social space. It's because the exciting thing that's going on is invisible. And what it is, is it's the growth of the net. It's the rise of the web, which hour by hour, day by day, is reaching around the planet deeper and deeper and deeper. The number of people getting email has doubled every six months for the last five years. It's doubled every six months. If this goes on at the current rate, every man, woman, and child on the planet will have email before the year 2000. And of course, there's nothing to see, there's nothing to touch. I mean, there's some appliances involved, but they're quiet and in the background. And yet, what it is, is that the human neural net, the unconscious of the species, is actually being hardwired as an artifact. We're pouring glass and gold and silicon down the microtubules of the racial imagination, and as it were, making a kind of casting of the state of the human imagination at the close of the millennium. And to what degree this imaging of ourselves in silicon will ever reach a limit is hard to tell. I mean, we've begun with the past. We're archiving it, we're virtualizing it, we're creating databases that allow us to stroll around in it. But more and more time will be consumed, and eventually the only choice will be to allow it to flow over into the presence. And prosthesis is already practically a way of life. What's coming is very hard to imagine. And Prygosian, to loop one of these concerns back to another, Prygosian got his start studying traffic theory on freeways. Well, it's now thought by the complexity people that when you get somewhere above six to the ninth entities operating in an environment of connectivity that you get, and now we switch philosophers and vocabularies, what David Bohm called emergent properties, and what you and I would call anybody's guess. I mean, that's what an emergent property is. It means something utterly unexpected, something completely unexpected. For example, I mean, he used very simple examples. For example, if you have five gold atoms, you don't have the color yellow. You don't get that until you have hundreds of gold atoms. That color is an emergent property. It requires a large number of gold atoms for the fact that gold is yellow to begin to be part of the picture. Similarly, wetness. If you have a water molecule, it is not wet in any sense that you can relate to. Wetness is a property of thousands of water molecules. It's an emergent property. And so there's obviously nothing magical about this unless you happen to be conscious at one of these phase transitions, and you actually see an emergent property come out of a species. And clearly, what we are trying to do is overcome our differences. Our thing is a curious dichotomy between our individuality and our drive toward community, and technology is facilitating the drive toward community at this incredibly accelerated rate. Traffic is accelerating. Traffic is accelerating. And my enthusiasm for psychedelic states of mind, I see simply as a kind of aboriginal precognitive anticipation of this state of electronic data fusion and information transparency that is being put in place. Essentially, what we're doing is we're realizing our cultural ideals, whether we're conscious of them or not. And one of our cultural ideals is agape, Christian love, or transparent, telepathic sharing. And so our technology becomes this. I mean, that's why we invented printing presses, and clear windows, and lingerie, and the computer, and all of these things facilitate. You think that, I mean, everybody's reading The Celestine Prophecy. What do you think about that? I think that that's like, goes right in line with what you just said, you know, that third Well, you know, O. Henry said, never read a book till it's five years old. And I don't always follow his advice, but in the case of The Celestine Prophecy, I have. I'm kind of weird. I was very embarrassed a week ago, or ten days ago, I was in New York City, and I was with some friends of mine who were in a rock and roll band, and they were on The Letterman Show. So I went with them to The Letterman Show for the taping of the show. It was the Spin Doctors. And I had never seen The Letterman Show. So I kept saying to people, is that Letterman? You know, the janitor would go by, and then, because we were there an hour ahead of time. So I'm not very au courant with these cultural icons. I wish the author of The Celestine Prophecy, he, she, them, or it, whoever it may be, good luck, a he. But I do, if what I've been able to glean from the ether about The Celestine Prophecy is that it is a species of anticipatory visionary breakthrough, right? Saying that the world is going to change beyond our possibility of recognizing it. I think this is absolutely true. The details are where it gets tricky. Part of my notion of how we should all behave as we move toward this attractor or this transcendental object that is the telos of the historical process is to just try and spread calm and good vibes so that people, you know, it's like a roller coaster, the sign which says, do not stand up. You know, people should not just keep your mouth shut, keep your hands on the handlebars, and, you know, you can yell your head off if you want, but do not stand up, please. My, just a word about this, I mean, to the immense boredom of half the people in the room who've heard me say this before, but this question about anticipations of the millennium, the way I think of it is that huge events have a kind of backwash into the past. They are not cleanly divided from the time which precedes them, so that before they happen, you can almost feel the certitude of their arrival. And so this thing that lies ahead of us now, not very far in the historical continuum, is the grandmother of all of this kind of thing. And social theories, philosophers, psychedelic trips, visions had in the desert, all of these things will just organize themselves like iron filings around the presence of this object ahead of us in time. And so in a sense, all of history is an anticipation of the end of history. And the closer you get to the end of history, the clearer the anticipations become. So, you know, when you're 2,000 years from
 from it. It's something about how God and man will be fused in one body, and a messiah will take a chosen people into a land of milk and honey, and that's the best anybody could do. That's the clearest image anybody could get of what the deal was. So then circa 1948, you're up to, you know, the Rigelians will come with enormous ships and advanced medical techniques and teach us how to clean up our earth and love one another and grow food from the sea and so forth and so on. Turns out, no, that isn't it either. And as we get closer, the amount of prophetistic speculation is just going to grow exponentially because all the old systems of thought are failing, and all the old systems of thought are capable of doing is denying the obvious, which is that the earth is on the brink of the greatest change since the end of the Mesozoic, you know? But people don't like to think about that because all they can think about is, you know, the possibility of personal extinction, technology, religion, psychedelic drugs, archaeology, that could at any moment spew something out of the ground that would completely scramble everybody's notion of what really did go on or something. And I'm not a face-on-Mars guy or some malarkey like that, let me make that clear. But still, you have to be open to the fact that something might come along. Well, what else do we want to say about that? Let me see if I covered my list. I think we were talking about the nets and the webs. Yeah, this collectivity that is coming into being is coming into existence more rapidly than anyone can chart or clock or understand. You know, I have a protocol that goes on in the middle of the night and searches databases all over the world for key words of interest to me. And when I get up in the morning, these files are just stacked on the screen, ready to be gone through. And you know, it can be trivial, but it could be, you know, a heresy, a Greek Orthodox heresy of interest to fully a dozen people on the planet. And you know, if the information is out there, the computer will eventually winnow and winnow and winnow, because it is so tireless and so deeply dedicated to my wishes. I mean, what else does it have to do? It doesn't, no. Well, the word I was thinking of is Mandaean, which is a religious cult that I'm interested in that's existed continuously for about 2,800 years. Mandaean. And they now are down to a few hundred people in the swamps of Iran and Iraq. And I wonder about the state of their community. I wonder how they came through the Gulf War. I wonder if they were able to preserve their very strict kosher laws and a bunch of other things. I mean, you may wonder, why do I care about this? I have a lot on my menu. Well, they had, by kosher, I mean, they had rules as a religious community that would be almost impossible to follow in the 20th century. For instance, one of their rules was that if your eye fell on a non-believer, if you were a Mandaean and your eye fell on a non-believer, then you had to have six days of purification. Well, since there are only a few hundred Mandaeans on this planet, it was tough to not occasionally encounter a non-believer, you can imagine. So then huge amounts of community time and energy were being taken up in these ritual abutions and cleansings to try and make it okay. And I wonder how they fare under Saddam Hussein. Well, so then you go on to the net and program this word, and you discover that in Pennsylvania there's a committee of people who are concerned about the Mandaean community, and then in Germany there are some people who are preserving Mandaean liturgy, and at the University of Heidelberg there's a guy who can read the books, and it's just... You know, Tim Leary said a wonderful thing years and years ago. He said, find the others. Find the others. And the computer is the tool for finding the others, and it was never intended for folks like you and me. It's one of these things that fell off the military vehicle as it rumbled by, and we peasants pulled it out of the bushes and discovered what you could do with this thing. But you can find the others. There are hundreds and hundreds of conferences going on on Usenet, and if it's a work of literature, if it's a sexual preference, if it's a complex programming problem, if it's an issue of historical research or diet or anything else, there are 50 or 60 people just waiting to talk to you about this. So, you know, I sort of believe that the psychedelic revolution is beginning to bear fruit, and that we shouldn't have thought of it as the 60s revolution. We should have thought of it as the 30 Years War. And, you know, victory is now within sight. No one can run or program these vast networks except guys with ponytails, and the suits who are depending on all of this stuff to hold the world together are entirely beholden. And, you know, guys with one earring and ponytails and all that, everything that loathes and revolts them is interposed between them and the technology, because print heads can't hack it. Literally, they can't hack it. And, as Thomas Kuhn said in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, you know, the way you really make revolutions is by waiting for the old guard to die off. And they are dying off. And then the synergy that comes from all of these fields melting together, I mean, it is like my intuition was always that the psychedelic experience was a fractal anticipation of human history. You know, that it starts out the same way, everything's normal, you're just cooking your food around the fire, and then it builds, and then there's structure, and then dissolution of structure, and then technical accretions, and vast downloading of ideas, and so forth and so on. And it's happening. I mean, the unitary mind is being created. It is, in fact, in existence. The autonomic functions of the human superorganism are already in place. And what do I mean by the autonomic functions? I mean the daily pricing of gold, the computer transactions that characterize the banking system. This is all going on all the time. Machines are talking to machines, moving billions of dollars around, setting the values of currency and precious metals and commodity. I mean, most of this is on automatic. Human operators are only called in when unexpected fluctuations are picked up inside the system. And yet it's not clear, you know, what is being maximized. The topmost level of control is only assumed to exist. This is very exciting. We all assume that if you follow these trees of control up and up, finally at the level of the IMF, the World Bank, the National Security Council, someone is running it. But it's actually not true. It isn't a tree. It doesn't lead to focal nexus of control. It's a net. It's a web. And, you know, when you realize this, you realize that a very large amount of power is in your hands. The people in this room, even if a couple of homeless have crept in here this evening, which is not likely, the people in this room probably represent the upper 5% of the most powerful manipulators on the planet. Because if you just have a telephone credit card, you're in the upper 10% of the powerful manipulators of information.
 on the planet. A calling card. Yeah, a calling card. And if you own a power book and an email address, you know, you are a member of the 20 million elite that is running the planet through the cybernet. And talking to those people, changing their minds, interacting with them is the way to steer it. And they are not the suits. They are not the guys chewing the black cigars. They're a much more malleable and open crowd. It's hard to pass a capitalist dominator through the keyhole of cyberspace. You have to be young and lean and mean. Tattoos help. That sort of thing. Could you say something about artists and, say, religious or spiritual sages who might look at the technology that you've been talking about and the science that you've been talking about and say, well, we've known this all along, this is sort of old hat, and how you integrate that sort of state of consciousness that's much different from the scientific way of seeing things. And where are these people? Well, you mean like yogins or something like that? Yogins and, yeah, people that, shamans that have no need for these ideas. Well, shamans, I think, are a good case in that apparently they have no need of these ideas. And what I mean by that is their societies are at dynamic equilibrium, left alone, they seem to do fine, so forth and so on. India, I would argue, shows no such ability to deal with its problems. I mean, socio-politically, it's a mess. They should be, and in fact are, very interested in this kind of technology. You see, the difference between Eastern and Western religion, I mean, there are many differences but an important one for what we're saying here this evening is that Eastern religion is basically timeless. When time is invoked, it's either in the Hindu system where it's kilioptasms of eternity and they're just cycles upon cycles, or it's the time of Taoism, which is the time of a moment and an insight. The weird thing about Western religion, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and all the cults that they have spawned, is the insistence that God will enter history, which is a crazy idea that God will enter history. At a given moment, it will be redeemed and the hell of toiling for our daily bread and the whole thing will somehow be made right by God's direct manifestation at a certain point. And this idea finds just no support in the East. So then when you ask about how these religious teachers relate to this technical thing, to me the more interesting relational approach to it is through somebody like Teilhard de Chardin, who I take as my direct inspiration. I never read de Chardin that carefully when he was hot, but since I've come out where I am about all this, I've looked back at it, and he and I are basically in 100% agreement except I go further. I say the date, and he is crafty enough in his Jesuitical way to stay away from anything so likely to expose you to scorn and ridicule. But what he's saying in The Phenomenon of Man is that we are now generating what he calls the noosphere, and the noosphere is the atmosphere of technical accretions and electronic information transfer and electromagnetic fields, VHF, UHF, so forth and so on, and that this is part of evolution. His great insight was to see geology, biology, and sociology as a continuous spectrum. And well, McLuhan talked a lot about Teilhard de Chardin. With McLuhan, you never knew whether he was being entirely serious or just going for the good line, but he maintained. He said that the age of the Holy Ghost, which was to occur immediately before the end of the world, that the age of the Holy Ghost, we had Edison to thank for it, and that the spread of electricity around the world was the direct descent of the Holy Ghost, and that as cities turned to oceans of electric light, he saw it as an epiphany of the third person of the Trinity. This is an argument for keeping Catholics far from the machinery of power. They're clearly screwballs of some sort. But it seems to me that if consciousness, if you make a religion out of consciousness, which unconsciously I think we in California have done, that this is what the new age is about. We worship mind. We worship mind. Well, if you make consciousness your religion, then clearly the body of consciousness is the technical accretion, the superhighways, the computers, the color, the fiber optic networks. All that is how consciousness manifests itself. It's as though we're still involved in the alchemical concerns of the 16th century, that consciousness achieves its fullest perfection through the fusion with matter, that the union of spirit and matter, which in materialist scientific terms is crazy talk, doesn't happen. But in the terms of the magical pre-Cartesian attitudes toward matter, this is what they were going for. And in a sense, you know, Merciliade said this. He said it's ironic that the 20th century, with its scorn for the magical notions of the 16th century, has achieved the full program that those notions set forth. In other words, changing of lead to gold, we do this. It costs a lot of money, but we can do it in our reactors, our cyclotrons. We change lead to gold. We sequence the genome. The secrets of life and longevity are unfolded before us. And then this final thing in the computer, I mean, the computer is the union of spirit and matter. And, you know, five or six years ago, you used to hear a lot of talk about how computers could never do all kinds of things, and they were simply adding machines and this and that. Well, that's a kind of computer, but those voices have grown strangely muted as massive parallel processing and neural nets and stuff like this. So I don't know where all this rests. You know, James Joyce said, man will be dirigible, which is like the flying saucer faith. I would like to think that the Philosopher's Stone is a suitable goal for human evolution, that we are actually downloading ourselves into a solid state realm where all that moves is ideas and the kind of electronic collectivity of mind, and then the earth is left to itself. But how this is to be accomplished, I'm not sure. But on the other hand, it's not up to me. I mean, if you read people like Hans Moravec, his book, what's it called? Mind Children, the Future of Machine and Human Intelligence. I mean, there are ideas in there so bizarre and far out, and yet, you know, being discussed by someone with a tenured position at Carnegie Mellon University, that all that really holds us back as these boundaries dissolve is our imagination. The difference between the psychedelic experience and history is that history is real, and at the end of it, you're going to be able to stay there, wherever there is, if you want, and do those things. And I think it's coming very, very quickly. Even the wildest things that we've talked about here to save certain theoretical constructs, such as time machines, are now being talked about in the popular scientific press. There was an article about time travel three issues ago in Scientific American.
 So does anybody want to say anything? Yeah. Do you see a distinction between understanding slash knowledge and consciousness? Or do you see those as one and the same thing? Well, this is a hot and complex thing that's being debated right now. The materialists who hold the high ground in neuromolecular physiology, what they like to say, they're very happy with this formulation, they like to say that consciousness is short-term memory plus attention. This is the new buzzword. Short-term memory plus attention. Actually, William James said this first, but it's just been brought forward. And if you think about it, that's a pretty good working model. If you say that consciousness is short-term memory plus attention, then it's probably a characteristic of most animals. And so then you get a seamless web. Where it gets complicated is that what we seem to be able to do is build very, very flexible models of future courses of action. And this may be a relationship to long-term memory. The relationship of higher animals to long-term memory is not clear. In other words, a mountain lion hunting, does she retain a memory of an incident with an important learning embedded in it months and months after it occurs? And in what way does she retain it? Does she retain it as a reflex, or does she actually, as we do, recall? And when we say recall, we mean picture a scene in our minds from the past and run it forward. How, again, well, this leads to something that I wanted to say. That memory, if you wanted to point to an incredible and significant failure, I've been talking about all these far-out things that have been going on. The greatest disappointment in science, I would say, in the last 35 years is the utter failure of science to make any progress on the question of memory. I mean, I've been following it for almost, well, not 35 years, but 30 years. And they're nowhere. They have not gotten beyond the kind of stuff that Karl Pribram was talking about in Languages of the Brain, which was published in 1973, for crying out loud. Walter Freeman's work, creative, brilliant work, no conclusion. The hardcore materialists have gotten nowhere. And this is a central thing for understanding consciousness, because where are the memories? Karl Lashley was the first person to ask this question, and it's never been satisfactorily answered. And now there are new theories about interference patterns in the brain and this sort of thing. But, you know, when the telephone was new, neurophysiologists like Ramon de Cajal said the brain was like an international telephone network. Now suddenly we have a hot new metaphor, and we apply it to the darkest area of our ignorance, which is the brain. And then, you know, you have the hardcore mystics who say the effort to understand consciousness is intrinsically doomed to failure, that brain cannot elucidate brain. And there's something to be said for that. You know, Gdel's incommensurability theorem and that whole thing. I don't exactly understand what it means to, say, explain consciousness. Understand it? I mean, what would that mean? Does that mean we would start with a synaptic event and end with an experience and be able to trace the transition from synaptic event to experience all the way through? I like, and, you know, it's a free enough field now, you can say anything you want. I like the idea that the brain is an antenna, not a storage device. And that seeking memory in the brain is like tearing transistor radios apart looking for little men. You know, there aren't little men in there. And so what you have instead is a quantum mechanical antenna. That would make sense because I really believe nature is a kind of seamless self-regulating oscillator of some sort. And so it's much more important to be in tune with the larger sets of what's going on than to be isolated from that and somehow inwardly cognizant of what philosophers call an interior dimension of transcendence. I don't believe that. I think, you know, that we are the most existentially isolated of all animal species as a consequence of language. And that part of our difficulty in correctly picturing the mind and its place in nature is the fact that we assume our uniqueness and our isolation and the strength of the ego boundary. But if you saw the brain, that's why, you know, my idea of the regulation of culture through the psychedelic experience is not that there is something magical about the psychedelic experience in and of itself, but that what it is is an attunement to natural harmonics on many levels that we could call, I do call it, the guy in mind. It's a higher intentionality, but it's not mystical mumbo-jumbo. It's biology, that there's level upon level of pheromones, oscillations, chemical oscillators, all kinds of things that regulate biology besides the gross activation of enzyme systems inside the wetware of an organism. When you're in a jungle like the Amazon, you see that, you know, this is seamless. This is one thing. It's only my style of knowing that tells me this is a palm tree, this is a crocodile, this is a butterfly. But the way it's all working is it's just genes and gene exchange and life and death and procreation and symbiosis and so forth and so on. I was thinking of Idiot Savants, too, how they, with their minds as an antenna, tapping into this incredible knowledge that there's no way they could have ever learned. Yes, well, I count myself among their number, without doubt. No, that's the only way, I mean, that is how I explain my career, because it has, you know, fundamentally a mathematical basis that's very solid and beyond reproach by all but the most stalwart. And yet, clearly, I'm some kind of cannabis-smoking lunatic. So how did that happen? Well, it's just the principle of the Idiot Savant, I think. And that nature is knowable. If you're God's fool, the secret will be given over to you. I mean, it's everywhere. It's in every drop of water. Everything has it in it. That was the alchemical faith, and it's the fractal faith as well. I have a question about the antenna thing, because I understand it in terms of, you know, picking up certain ideas or whatever, but when you talk about receiving specific memories that you as a single entity have experienced, so you as an entity have experienced this thing, and now it's just floating out there in... You mean, does it actually call you up and say, hey, you? Is it like that? What is it that produces that one... I mean, I can imagine receiving certain things that are cultural or, you know, Gaia and whatever, but when you receive, you're talking about your own personal memories, you know, stubbing your toe eight years ago. You know, why is that floating around? Oh, I see what you're saying. Well, this is the great problem for all theories of memory. We know that if you live to be 70 years old, that every molecule in your body will be exchanged approximately 10 times. Well, then how is it that a 70-year-old woman can remember what it was like to be taken in the arms of her grandmother and the smell of the perfume that the old lady wore? I mean, that is just an absolute mystery.
 And if you're a hardcore materialist, and God knows, they're around somewhere, probably not here, but if you're a hardcore materialist, then you say, well, something must persist. And if we could figure out the one thing that persists, then we'd have it nailed. Well, it turns out there is something which persists. The neurons do not cycle over. You are born with a certain number of neurons, and you die with a few less, depending on your drug-taking history. And they are never replaced, and they are never cycled out. But then the materialists break down, because this magical substance, which you would think would help them solve their memory problems, the theories necessary to turn it into the storage site of memory are too fantastic for them to swallow. You would have to go to something like the invisible landscape plug-plug to find a theory radical enough to account for that, because you would have to hypothesize molecular storage, almost at the speed of a tape recorder, of theoretically an entire lifetime. So 70, let's make it 35 years, because presumably you don't retain your dreams very useful. So let's say 30 years of continuous tape recording being downloaded into something under 8 angstroms in diameter, with no degradation of the data stream, and so forth and so on. I mean, it becomes insupportable and fantastic in their minds, but perhaps not. I mean, why is... I mean, nature has a peculiar way of using redundancy. Like, once nature finds a way to do something, she will tend to use that technique over and over again in different applications. We see that the problem of storage of information and retrieval of information and non-degradation of that information has all been solved in the functioning of DNA. But the information that is stored in DNA, if you talk to an information theorist, they will say, well, it's not like memory, it's not like people's faces or their addresses and telephone numbers, it's just protein synthesis. It's structures for protein synthesis, and you mustn't be so naive as to confuse this with real information and pat on the head and so forth and so on. But here we have the DNA, the central molecular machinery of life, and for reasons known to nobody, vast sections of it are what are called silent DNA. What does that mean? It means those parts of the DNA don't code for proteins. Well, but maybe they code for something else. Maybe they code for memory, and maybe the so-called random or trash arrangement of nucleotides in those sections of the DNA are, in fact, our memory. Memory is very mysterious, and the mechanism which explains it may involve principles at the edge of or beyond the grasp of current science. I mean, think of it. I have memories going back to eight months, and many people report memories under three years, and often these are movies. The most highly degradable and data-dense form of image storage there is. That's why it's so maddening to store images, videotape on computers today, because it's so memory-intensive, as they say in the biz. And yet this seems to be how we store our memories. Let's see, what else needs to be said? Well, again, this is simply a laundry list of things, cutting-edge concerns and ideas in the realm of what I've left out, and I'll mention it and then maybe we can knock off, are pop political ideas. I've talked to you guys before about the idea of one woman, one child. I've slightly modified it recently, or made an addendum to it, which is, I think it would be very interesting if every woman had one child. We've talked about that and the social consequences of that. But how interesting it would be then if 75% of those children were female, and that the feminization of society, I think, should not proceed through the feminization of men. It should proceed by dialing down the overall number of men in the society. And I think probably the 50-50 sexual ratio that is actually an artificial ratio maintained by crazed monogamites and their dominator stooges, not to judge it, of course, and that usually in large mammalian social animal groups, males are more at a premium. And so that's something I've been following and talking to people. And then lastly, and in a somewhat lighter vein, I want to urge you all to consider the Zippies and their crusade to save the soul of America, which you may not have heard of. Well, that's how it is with crusades. The Zippies are a bunch of English bohemians who are trying to launch a third British cultural wave following in the model of the Beatles first and Malcolm McLaren and the Sex Pistols second, and now come the Zippies. And they exemplify a certain kind of syncopated house, trance, dance, techno music. And what I like about them is that they operate under the banner of what they call pro-noia. And pro-noia is the creeping idea that people are plotting behind your back to help you. And I see pro-noia as part of the phenomenon of boundary dissolution. You know, things are going to get better and better because everyone... And what a Zippy is, is basically a freak who has their shit together. You know, Zippies are freaks, but they don't have large amounts of garbage in their apartments. Freaks who recycle, that's it. That's your typical Zippy. And so they'll be making their way across country, and if you get a chance to attend any of their raves, you should do it. Raves are very good for the soul. There's a lot of youth bashing going on in this country, and it's very weird and directed from large glass and aluminum boxes along Madison Avenue in Manhattan. There's nothing wrong with people under 25. They're fine, thank you. It's the culture that they're inheriting that is so toxic and weird that they don't know what to do with it. Somehow the response of that culture is to stigmatize them and lay down all kinds of horseshit trips about Generation X and this and that and the other thing. I really think the Zippies are the real youth culture, and it's psychedelic and it's experience-based. That's the other thing, something we've preached here over and over again, that the primacy of direct experience is what life is about. Not what Time Magazine is telling you, but how you feel in your body right here, right now, and the drugs you take and the sexual acts you participate in and the things you do with your mind and body in real time and everything else is highly abstract and not to be trusted, I think. In New York I gave a talk for the Zippies trying to formulate what it is, and it's mostly what it isn't. It's about not believing, not consuming, not following. It's about taking back direct experience. If we could feel our circumstance, if we could feel what we're doing to the Earth...
 each other we wouldn't do it it's that simple because it's too horrible but you know you can anesthetize yourself with ideology with wealth with distance with religious obsession so forth and so on and then you know you can't tell shit from shinola but pain is pain agony is agony there's plenty of it out there so I think the precondition for any kind of response to that any kind of like political or reforming response to it is to feel and that means taking back your own social space from the machinery of media and domination and value manipulation and so forth and so on so I live life with an immense sense of intellectual excitement and hope that's the thing I think there are a whole bunch of cards on the table that permit intelligent people to hope intelligence and cynicism which have gone hand in hand throughout the 20th century are no longer good company with each other it's inappropriate cynicism is now inappropriate it's de classe it's not chic my dears something else is on the horizon and so permitting smart people to hope that is the goal

Terence McKenna - Poolside Interview, Palenque Mexico - 28 Jan 1996

Do you think, from your experience with Ayahuasca and the mushrooms, that there exists a pedagogical sense of the experience? Exists a systematically teacher, instance, or factor which does not proceed from the ego in the experience with these antigens? So the question is, is there a teaching presence that doesn't proceed from the ego? Exactly. Sure. Yes, absolutely. I mean, we're not saying what it is, you're asking what it isn't. It certainly is not the ego. Perhaps it's the superego, or the Gaian mind of the planet, or something like that, but it certainly is not coming from ordinary consciousness, ego consciousness. Is this common in the mushroom experience, in the Ayahuasca experience? Yes, I would say at effective doses, most people have this experience. I don't know how to characterize an effective dose of Ayahuasca, but I would think 30 milligrams of psilocybin and above, this would be a typical reaction. In this case, who or what do you think that teaches us? It's inside or outside us? It's neither outside nor inside, it's both, because what it is, is the psychedelic dissolves boundaries, and then we learn levels of reality that normally are not available to us. So it's really, I think of it as the wisdom of biology, which is in your own body, and in the environment, and in the much larger global environment. So the psychedelics give an insight into biology that is psychologically healthy. That's how I would put it. I ask some persons that have too much time in the Ayahuasca way, and it's multiple factors they bring to explain this question. Some talk about spirits, some talk about the self, some talk about the founder of the line in the work, or guardian angel. It's very interesting, this discussion, I think. The idea that it's the biology of the planet. Biology. One's self, one's self, the body, the wisdom of the body, the wisdom of life. The supermind that you call. You call it the supermind. Supermind. Right. I ask you now, again, from your experience with these entheogens, if, in your point of view, does exist an ethic religious character of the experience, do you think that they apport a wish to become more ethic in the relationship with the other man, and with all nature? Yes, I think it inspires a level of attention that can be the basis of an ethic. It seems to make people more aware of the social dimension to obligation, something like that. This is how the Bwiti taking functions in Africa. This is how shamanic use of plants seems to function. It increases the social connectivity, which can be the basis for an ethical position. Do you think that they apport an ecological consciousness, too? Yeah, I think that would come with it. A sensitivity to nature. This biological intelligence that I mentioned certainly carries with it the implication of caring for nature. Do you think that they have therapeutical properties, the mushrooms and the ayahuasca? Well, certainly the ayahuasca has physical therapeutic properties. It kills intestinal parasites. There's scientific evidence that it interrupts the trypanosomal phase of the malarial organism. But the larger impact is the psychological impact on people. By dissolving boundaries, people are able to realign themselves with the community and their family and their obligations. So in that sense, it's like a kind of psychotherapy, and that's what is happening for most people. The mushrooms have this kind of effect, too. Different but similar. It's a kind of psychosomatic effect? Psychosomatic effect. Well, sure, you're feeling it in the body, you're feeling it in the mind, but it's a relationship to your past and your self-image. It's more psychological than somatic, but it is psychosomatic. Have you perceived in the effect of them some kind of therapeutical properties, some event, some effect systematically? Have I seen these things make a difference in people's lives? Is that what you mean? What? Have I seen these things make a difference in people's lives? Is that what you mean? Yeah, yeah. Sure, I think it makes a very positive impact that ayahuasca in the upper Amazon, which is what I'm familiar with, is a very powerful force for keeping people physically healthy and in tune with nature and the surrounding social environment. It makes life easier. It makes life easier and it makes mental health more naturally accessible to most people. What do you think about the paranormal or parapsychological phenomena described in the experiences with these entheogens? Well, I have an open mind. I have seen enough in my own experience to be convinced that with further scientific research we might be able to understand some aspects of the paranormal using these compounds. These compounds are tools for understanding mind, both ordinary mental processes and extraordinary mental processes, because they give us a way to get into the mind and to make changes and then observe them that we can't ordinarily make. So I think the frontier for parapsychological research using psychedelics is good. What is your personal experience about this? In two experiences in my life I saw convincing demonstrations of telepathy. Telepathy? Telepathy. And in one case it was not simply reading someone's mind, it was that someone was telling me a memory that I had never told anyone. So it was not simply communication in the moment, they seemed to have complete access, or partial access at least, to a portion of my past. And that was very impressive. But how to repeat these things is something you may see for 30 seconds over 20 years. Can you say something more about your vision on the relationship and differences between shamanic plants and the artificial chemical compounds? Well, the shamanic plants have a very long history of human usage, and so in a sense you enter into that field of their usage when you take them. The new compounds are new, and so they feel new, they are less determined, and to my mind usually less experientially rich. So I prefer the plants. What do you think about the question of the presence of advanced cultures and men in the remote past of humankind? In the absence of any convincing evidence I'm very skeptical.
 You don't think that the pyramids and, for example, the know-how to make the ayahuasca, and so how man discovered that plant with... Oh, I thought you meant something. I thought you were implying Atlantis or something. No, it's very clear that cultures are always complicated. There's no such thing as a simple culture. Every culture is extremely complex and advanced in different ways. So Egyptians could build the pyramids. Amazon Indians understand the pharmacology of ayahuasca. Americans go to the moon. These are three different cultures, three different styles, but one is not superior to the other. Cultures are always extremely sophisticated and complex affairs. There's nowhere where you find what we could describe as a simple culture. Since the beginning? Since the Paleolithic or Neolithic age? Certainly within recorded history and on the planet now. Sometime in the past, culture must have emerged from advanced animal organization. But today, there are no simple cultures on this planet. Thank you very much. You You The first question is about the experience within the Daim. Do you believe that experience is an experience that teaches?

Terence McKenna - The Evolutionary Importance Of Technology - August 1996

So I can talk endlessly, but I hope with this many people in the room, people arrived with some kind of an agenda. With only three brief nights here, we'll have to cut to the chase. So if anyone came with any particular question in mind, this would probably be the moment to push to the front of the line. Yeah. These extremely exotic fields, solid state physics and nanotechnology and gene transplant and all this stuff, they feel individually that complete breakthrough in their own field lies just 18 months, two years, three years in the future. They can see their technological and research dreams converging, but this enormous wave front of knowledge that has risen up out of the context of human civilization, it doesn't communicate along the front of the wave. None of these people in any of these fields have a very clear grip on what's going on in the labs down the hall or two floors up in different departments. So what's happening is the human database has taken on a kind of self-organizing quality. It's no longer entirely being coordinated by political decision makers or corporate decision makers. It's just simply taken on a life of its own. And I've long thought that one way of thinking about what's going on on this planet is that information is just simply bootstrapping itself to higher and higher levels of self-reflection and self-coordination using whatever means are necessary. When geology was all there was, that was the medium. When biology was all there was, that was the medium. When chipped flint and ceramic was all there was, that was the medium. And now the electronic information transfer technology is so all-pervasive that it's as though information has come into its own. It is now very restless in its relationship with biology as it explores the new world of silicon into which it seeks to transform itself. Technology has become prosthesis for the human species. It's our machines and our technologies that are now the major evolutionary forces acting upon us. It's not our political systems. It's these extra-sexual children, these mind children that we have assembled out of the imagination. And I find it very promising and very challenging and very interesting. I think that somehow the way back to the archaic, to the world of ecological balance and low technology and retraction of toxic infrastructure and all of that good stuff doesn't lie in some kind of Luddite know-nothing-ism or some kind of fascist program of limiting population and this sort of thing. Although I favor limiting population, I just can't figure out a way to do it that leaves human freedom intact. Instead it has to be a forward escape, a forward escape through technology, but technology that serves an agenda of archaic revivalism. My brother was just here this weekend and after we presented publicly then we spent a long night talking over all of this stuff. Between the spread of the information transfer technology, the internet and its promise of virtual reality soon to come, and biotechnology, which is literally taking apart the constituents of the living world and using them to produce all the drugs, all the foods, all the vitamins, all the nutritional supplements, and then many other solid state materials, between those two factors and then nanotechnology, the technology of producing tiny machines made of diamond by the trillions designed to do everything that nature does so that cities can be grown like forests and China can be fed out of matter compilers and there is a complete break with the agricultural cycle so that the earth need no longer sustain the human population. And so then the human population, by breaking its reliance on the agricultural cycle, you gain some political breathing room. All of this is coming very, very fast and is largely unanticipated by the political managerial types. What it means to me personally, I think, in terms of my own ideas about the future, is that I can now see, without too much sweat, from here to the Eschaton in ten easy steps. I mean, it's perfectly clear that if novelty is intensifying and locally concentrating, that where it's probably headed is into cyberspace or some kind of virtual space, so that long before 2012, the various ontologies of world religions will be peddled as theme parks in virtual space and, you know, you'll be hard-pressed to know whether you're in heaven or simply in heaven land, which is, you know, a preview of heaven attainable by paying a $50 entrance fee at the turnstile. This is going to make it very difficult for all my predictions to be put in context because they will be both true and untrue. Everything will come true in cyberspace. That's the whole idea. What cyberspace is, on one level, it's simply the human imagination vivified, hard-wired. What we're doing, furiously, as fast as we can, is exteriorizing the human nervous system into a global organism of some sort, which has a weird kind of Husserlian intersubjectivity about it. You know, it is neither subjective nor objective. We are subjective nodes embedded in this domain of technologically created intersubjectivity between other human beings and machines. And what's happening is a lot of people are being left behind or, without even realizing it, are just opting out and saying, you know, I can't handle it, it's too much to think about. I think I'll see what's on daytime TV or I'll buy a newspaper or I'll walk in the park to attempt to maintain the illusion that, you know, things are as they are. Things aren't as they are. Things have already become as they will be. The future is now not ahead of us. We're there. We're there. And the only question is where do you position yourself now in this multidimensional matrix? You can deny it, which is to become a conservative or even more reactive to it. You can become a reprobate, if you wish, or you can move toward the front of knowledge. Position yourself close to these unfolding and empowering technologies. As all notions of commodity and scarcity and this sort of thing.
 begin, begin I say, to break down. It seems to me the the sanest place to try and occupy in this whole situation is that of artist-producer and that it's very very important to not consume this stuff. That the world is being divided into artists and marks to people who are like somehow initiated into a higher level maturity about what the society is about and how it works. It's a kind of street smarts actually. And then the poor souls who just take it all for granted you know and actually are concerned about those families of flight 800. The families, the families, the agony of the families. You know the people so harebrained as to buy horseshit like that are going to have a very very hard time as the crap game of the future unfolds to its full fury. So I think it's it's very important for people to to define themselves as artists and learn tools and understand just how the game is being played in this informational jungle that is being erected. Because you will either have a plan or you will become part of somebody else's plan. And there are a million plans out there waiting to ensnare the clueless. So more than ever it becomes necessary to have some kind of anchor into a real modality. And you know it's too predictable for me to try and draw out the suspense. I mean as far as I can tell the only predict the only place where we can touch the earth in this evolving situation is through our bodies into feeling by any means necessary. And that would certainly include psychedelics. The two books or two very interesting books that I've read in the past year and maybe some of you have read them. One is Morris Berman's Coming to Our Senses and the other is David Abrams book The Spell of the Sensuous. And both of these books are about feelings essentially. And Whitehead who I take as my mentor you know created a very mathematically formal metaphysic in which the primary datum of experience is feelings. I mean that's a direct quote from Whitehead. The only thing you can trust at this point and some of you heard me say this before is the felt presence of immediate experience otherwise known as feelings and mathematics. And mathematics is something that most of you have been denied in order to keep you marks. So all you have are feelings. And so it's very important to empower this dimension which Husserl or Merleau-Ponty or somebody called the felt presence of immediate experience. Everything proceeds from that. Even thought is subsequent to feeling and still more removed is any hypothesis about reality and any theory of morality and any theory of action and so forth and so on. And so you know psychedelics which have traditionally I now think played the role of deculturating people. I think the anthropologists got it slightly wrong. When you're taken out into the bushes and given some drug by the fellow members of your tribe this is not that you are being made a full member of the society. It's that you were a full member of the society and now what you're being shown is what's under the board. The tricks of the trade. You're being turned into not a full member of the society but what I what my brother has called an extra environmental. You're coming from outside and this is a kind of maturity that many people never not only never attain it never enters their mind that such a state even exists. A state not of alienation exactly but of ironical sophisticated insight into the mechanisms of one's own culture and the cultural games that are being played. And you know this rap would have been applicable at any time that it made sense certainly any time in the 20th century. But with the rise of these technologies and the acceleration of all this novelty it becomes more and more important to anchor it in this archaic value pattern accessible through psychedelics. And I don't say this with a sense of urgency. I think it's happening. I don't think there's a problem. I'm just sharing with you how I see it going. The people who are running the the internet at the developmental and cutting edge level are very psychedelic. I mean the connections are not lost whether it's consciously or unconsciously apprehended. Somehow it can be sensed that the whole countercultural thrust since the 60s has been coherently one thing. It's about boundary dissolution and connectivity and strange pictures in your head or whatever that means. So it's the psychedelic experience from being a clandestine experience and I'm speaking of Western culture in the 20th century from being a clandestine experience of an individual or of a caress is becoming the general model for the organization of global society. Whether anybody realizes it or not this idea of all information in circulation of a never sleeping global mind with all what in a sense what's happening is that the unconscious mind is a luxury the human species cannot afford at this point in our dilemma and so the unconscious mind is simply rising into consciousness by being hardwired into this global infrastructure. Well so that's my take on it. What's your take on it? Does anybody want to say anything? Yeah. I was wondering what this list of psychedelic plants was for in terms of are there differences in one's experience with these and are there ones that are more or less readily grown in one's backyard or greenhouse? Oh yeah, well. It's a big issue. Yes, I mean when I talk about psychedelics I'm basically talking about alkaloids that occur in plant metabolism and have a history of human usage in aboriginal shamanism so that would be things like peyote, ayahuasca, mushrooms, certain snuffs, cannabis, detour, although detours are not alkaloids, or maybe they are, but the subfamily is tropane. Anyway they're chemically different. The notion here is simply that there are a lot of problems with accessing altered states of consciousness and many of these problems are artificially induced by frightened governments restricting access. So it's solely dawned on people that these chemicals occur in most environments in many plants and with a little chemical strategy and a little cookery
 and a little shamanic strategy, out of most environments you can coax some kind of kick-ass consciousness-altering plant or combination of plants without resort to the local criminal syndicalists who may be prowling the streets. So it's sort of become a, I don't want to demean it, but a fad, a hobby, an avocation of people to grow these plants. If you want me to recommend one that might get you off, not kill you and keep you out of jail, well, the one that we're all very interested in at the moment is Salvia divinorum. Salvia divinorum is a plant that for years was carried in the psychedelic literature as possibly hallucinogenic, but nobody could get off on it. It's a mint that grows in the mountains of Mexico. And then a few years ago, an anthropologist, Brett Blosser, some of you probably know Brett, he's been to Esalen, he was studying these Mazatec Indians and finally just put it to them and they took him off in the bushes and got him so loaded that he was raving about it. So then the chemists moved in. The chemists had visited the situation before, but with a simple alkaloid test. You have this thing called Dragendorff's reagent and you mash it up with a plant and if it turns color, it's got alkaloids. Well, you do this in the field. Well, they had tested Salvia divinorum and it was negative for alkaloids, so having never encountered a psychedelic that wasn't an alkaloid, they felt confident in rejecting it. Once these reports began to come in, they went back through, and in fact it was an underground chemist, I'm not sure he wants his name stated, but anyway, again, someone, a frequent visitor to Esalen. And he went back and with quite simple procedures, lo and behold, out comes a crystalline white powder and he, following the famous example of Albert Hoffman with LSD, that you should start 100 times smaller than you think is where the action is, he smoked one milligram, one milligram, a thousand mikes. I mean, that's a grain of salt of this stuff. And, you know, completely lost it. And so then he went back and discovered that years previously there had been analysis done on this plant and that a compound called alpha-salvinorin had been isolated and characterized but never given to test animals or human beings. So he sent for a chromatographic standard of this compound and immediately smoked it up upon arrival. And it did exactly what the stuff he'd gotten out of the plant had done to him. So then he knew that the compound in the plant was alpha-salvinorin, a diterpene, a compound in a chemical family previously unknown to contain psychoactive material. And word spread and people smoke this, roll bombers out of the dried leaves, eat, put quids of the fresh leaves in their mouths, and then in some vanishingly small case, few cases of the truly intrepid, people have extracted the stuff to crystal and smoked it. I don't urge you to do that. I mean, 500 micrograms of this stuff, this is the first compound found in nature active at that range. I mean, LSD is active at 500 micrograms, but it was thought for decades to be the only drug active at that range. I think somebody once said to me, you want to know what a human being getting loaded on 500 micrograms of LSD is like? He said, that's like one red ant ripping apart the Empire State Building in 40 minutes. You know, I mean, it's dramatic that such a little bit of material can do what it does. Well, this stuff in salvia divinorum is in the ballpark, definitely. And, you know, DMT test pilots return white-knuckled and ashen from whatever it is that lies on the other side of this stuff. As a plant, you know, the good news is it's easy to grow. It's easy to grow enough to take. It's not illegal. It is not illegal to grow, extract, transport, advocate, use in therapy. It's just simply not illegal in any way. It will be very interesting to see how the establishment handles this particular compound, because this is not the 1960s when you can just, the way the drug laws are written, for something to be made illegal at the pleasure of the Attorney General or someone like that, it has to be a structural near relative of an already illegal compound. And this isn't. This isn't. So the only way this stuff could be made illegal is for scientific evidence to be brought into court that there's something wrong with it. And causing hallucinations at this point I don't think is enough. There has to be some physical toxicity or some demonstrable public health problem, or this will probably get through. I think really what salvia means, and then there are others I could talk about, but this isn't a psychobotany gathering, or maybe it is. But I think what all this means is that the drug laws are not going to be repealed. They're just simply going to become irrelevant, because there are so many loopholes, chemical exceptions, local sources of every illegal thing. I mean, take DMT for example. DMT is a Schedule I drug, heavily controlled, but since all those laws were passed, it's come to be realized that every human being has it in them. Well, so you're holding. You are potentially arrestable for holding and transporting a Schedule I drug. Well, then that's obviously absurd, but on the other hand, the law has never been fought on those grounds. So ayahuasca is a perfect example. So in a sense, ayahuasca is not a drug, because everything in it that is working occurs in the human body anyway, just in smaller amounts and in a different ratio. So unless we propose to make human brains illegal, which I'm sure there are some people who would line up for that with great enthusiasm, that's Buchanan's 17% that we just have to put up with. Most people realize, I think, that the chemistry of consciousness and the chemistry of nature are co-evolved and equally complex, and the place where one stops and the other begins is a fool's game. So if any of you are interested, Salvia, it's easy to sit here. I mean, talking about psychedelics is very, very, very, very different from taking psychedelics. It's all very well to listen to me spiel my spiel, but the most important thing you could possibly do is actually somehow contort the contents of this evening to the point where it got you loaded. And that's probably best approached legally, safely, horticulturally, humbly, through Salvia Divinam. How long does that experience last? Well, the way I like to do it, people do it different ways. The way I like to do it is I weigh about 35 grams of it, which is quite a pile, and then I remove the vein, the mid-vein of the leaf with my fingernail, just to drop the volume down. And then when it's all done, I have this very nice, soft pile of green leaves. And then I roll it up and fold it up and put it in my cheek and lie down where I can see a digital clock. And what I'm waiting for is minute 17 or so. And right around then, you know, you get visual streaming, purple and chartreuse.
 Blobs of light floating past your eyes. This is not the psychedelic experience It's the prodrome of hallucination you sometimes see this after orgasm But in the case of the salvia thing after two or three minutes of this it doesn't go away instead it You know moves on to the next level and this is extremely Peculiar Plastic stretching folding machine-like hallucinations it reminds me some of you may know Salvador Dali's painting Ode to the Revolution number five construction soft construction in baked beans You know that painting. Well. Yes, it's like that and you sort of feel like that and The hallucinations are very bright They are not like what I always think when it's happening is my god I can't believe this stuff is legal. It actually is working You know It's not like it's almost working or sort of working or any of these you know with these other horrible legal thing this one Works it works And it works enough that if that you actually reach a place with it Where you wonder if it's not going to work too much Which tells you just how good it is of course at that point? You're probably at the top of the mountain just as you begin to have anxiety about well How strange will this be? You're probably coming around the corner and Then I and then you come down in about 45 minutes and go to sleep an hour Mm-hmm If it didn't taste so bad I Could do it three nights a week in other words it is and yet. It's much. It's it's like it's I Don't know exactly how to explain it. It is absolutely satisfying and very powerful, but it doesn't seem at that dose It doesn't seem like it could become a wild horse at higher doses the stories begin to get harder to map and people who fiddle with the pure compound are obviously really Intrepid it seems to be about some kind of my brother described it very well the other night he seems to be susceptible to it some people are and some aren't and he was at a conference somewhere and There was just dried material rolled and He just took a big hit basically to see how it Tasted to sort of get the feeling for how it tasted and it it folded him I mean he came apart he twitched on the ground and his description of it was he said it was like It was like being rotated To the left there was this strange counterclockwise twist and Then you're like in this other dimension you've just been hyperdextro rotary Homogenized and now you're in a previously unsuspected domain of space and time That is immediately contingent to this dimension, but only by that means and people do People talk about something folds Something twists or untwists. There's definitely a sense of being moved that's how and the come on is faster than DMT, which is Hard to imagine. I mean the the come on in fact is so fast that You don't act you sort of discover yourself there You know you're waiting for it to come on and then you realize that for some time it has actually been on And it was your perceptions that were were lagging No, I mean the taste if you do it the fresh leaf in the mouth It tastes very much like a very large mouthful of very leafy leaf It's bitter. It's bitter, but it's not Appalling it's just bitter one could probably get used to it. You know After the 17 minutes you spit it out Well, I used to tell people to spit it out at minute 17 And then some people couldn't there were complaints and so now what I tell people is keep it in your mouth until it works But some unless you're a hard case Somewhere between 15 and 20 minutes. It's gonna find you Yeah Yeah, um two things one going back is Do you where do you see? Technology do you see technology playing a game? the altered state of consciousness and Or Reading about super string theory and probabilities And listening to you I Can't help but make this connection of these altered states being shifted into Just a slightly less probable place Well first of all how technology relates to altered states On a trivial level it. I mean not trivial, but but on a Obvious level I guess It's really create. It's really knit knitted the community together I mean the internet empowers all marginal are all Marginalia, and God knows we're marginal so the fact that there are these Conferences and email lists where people feel free to say anything and to pass on all kinds of botanical chemical shamanic Information means nobody need now Get into trouble through ignorance Because there are vast FAQ files on the net and any you know if you're if so if you've gotten some DMT And you're wondering what it does. There's an afternoon's worth of reading on the internet You know Gracie and Zarkov take a trip McKenna meets the basketballs and on and on and on So that's very important, but as I said somewhat Pedestrian the thing that excites me about these informational technologies is I think we're going to be able to use virtual reality to show each other the insides of our own heads and That this has never been possible. I mean we know each other by our surfaces and our symbols You know we make small mouth noises, and we assume we share the same dictionary and by such rickety Infrastructure is this we build community and understanding, but if everybody worked on a the mansion of their soul in Cyberspace and you could invite people in and say you want to know who I am this is not not this this Six-foot two-inch piece of meat don't that's not it. Here's what it is Here's my hopes my dreams my fears my past accomplishments my unfinished projects my catastrophes An incredible amount of intimacy and hence mutual appreciation and Empathy so I think it will that the whole thing is bandwidth bandwidth simply means the on one level it means the speed at which information is moved from one point to another but in in Experiential terms what bandwidth means is how deep the image is you know a telephone call is very low bandwidth a Television assisted telephone call is higher bandwidth and as we expand bandwidth between each other we will Dissolve our differences. I mean this is my faith. I think it's amazing that we've built a global civilization in an environment of 4,000 languages and no better mode of communication than small mouth noises and their electronic equivalents and So we're about to take an enormous leap toward understanding each other What we will understand I don't know a friend of mine who was somewhat Speaking ironically, but I think he meant it said all decadence is
 is finding out what the neighbors are really doing. You know, that what society is, is an elaborate structure to keep us believing certain things about each other, which are in fact not true. And that when we find out they're not true, then we're going to have to deal with that. Imagining what these truths might be is food for thought, certainly. So virtual reality, you know, we'll show each other the inside of our heads and our dreams, and then my own private obsession, I hope we can see simulations of psychedelic states. I mean, this is where all this graphics creativity and three-dimensional graphics power, because anybody who has taken psychedelics much at all knows that there are realms of beauty in there more astonishing than the Sistine Chapel or, I don't know, Angel Falls for that matter. I mean, the most beautiful things in the universe are inside the human mind. And, you know, I was trained at one point as an art historian, and if art is the effort to get those mental objects into the shared world of social space, then art has a lot of catching up to do. I mean, the very best art has been very halting. You know, you discover more art in your own head than the entire canon of Western art since the Renaissance. And who are we? Just ordinary people. So it will be immensely empowering. The question about superstring theory, I don't claim to understand it. I also suspect that fashion now rules the physics department, and it's all changing so quickly. You know, physics has for 200 years or 150 years, physics was the paradigmatic science. All sciences aspired to be as scientific as physics, because often in physics, theory and experimentally derived values will agree with each other out to five or six decimal points of measurement. Well, God, in sociology, if you get within 10%, you hail yourself as rigorous. And biology sort of falls in between there, but it's very sloppy compared to physics. But physics is, once they pushed beyond the Hamiltonian model of the atom and into the domain of the quanta, the phenomena that are encountered are so counterintuitive that nobody knows exactly how to interpret it. I mean, the people who actually do the work of quantum physics on a daily basis work in a pure mathematical language and actually make a considerable effort not to try and think about what does this mean in English, because it means stuff so crazy that you can't even... that it's just so counterintuitive. I mean, for instance, a month ago in Science News, they reported, what was it, a beryllium atom that they were able to excite into this peculiar quantum state where, as far as any test they could tell, it was in two places at one time. Well, was it in two places at one time, or is it that English is simply inadequate to say what it was, and this is some kind of deceiving, lower-dimensional description of it. Non-locality is this phenomenon that was thought so squirrelly and improbable that in the 20s, when they formulated the quantum theory, they had two quantum theories on the table in front of them, both giving identical predictions mathematically, but using different assumptions, and one of them had non-locality built into it, and the other had uncertainty built into it, and they thought uncertainty was a smaller outrage to reason than non-locality, so they chose the Heisenberg-Bohr model with this uncertainty principle embedded in it, but now, in the last five years, non-locality, which previously was sort of a joke that these equations predicted non-locality, but some people thought of experiments to actually test this, and non-locality is as experimentally verifiable as any other phenomenon in the quantum world, and what does it mean? It means that all matter in the universe is somehow connected to all other matter in the universe instantaneously, without subject to the inverse square law or the speed of light, and this essentially vindicates mysticism, which has been at loggerheads with the enterprise of Western science since it began. It also may mean the alchemists like to say what is here is everywhere, what is not here is nowhere. What it implies potentially is that all information is immediately available, that we need not go to the Andromeda galaxy or the moons of Jupiter or anywhere else to find out the answer to any question. Somehow information is holographically and fractally and homogeneously distributed through the space-time matrix. Well, God, if you could get a technology together based on that, it would be the greatest revolution since the birth of human language or something like that. I suspect that life is a great enough technology to be able to... Yeah, I suspect so too. One of the things I mentioned and one of the things... If I have a concern about the machine part or the hard wiring is that it can take the attention away from... The biological... The biological mind being able to do that, which may mean needing the help of some other minds and stuff also to be able to kind of reach that. Well, I think technology... The human brain is the god of technological innovation. In other words, we want to do it that way. We want to do it that small, that fast, that neatly. So as technology advances, it's going to look more and more like biology. Nanotechnology, which, as you all probably know, is this evolving technological field where you work with single atoms. You build up things atom by atom. Well, this is how biology does it. DNA is read by ribosomes that specify the assembly of proteins, atom by atom. This is how we will do it. So the technologies of the future will be more and more quote-unquote natural appearing. And finally, my fantasy is, you know, a world where when you want to contact the Internet, you just walk over and put your hand on a tree and you immediately have T6 connection to the global bio-cybernetic matrix in cyberspace. Everything that we're doing, like building the Internet, for example, you can build the Internet, you can lay fiber-optic cable everywhere and put up space satellites or stuff like that, and another way to do it would just recognize that the mycelial network already present in the soil probably has room for you to run your messages through it while it's doing the business of being alive. So, you know, the telephones of the future may look more like mushrooms than they do today. Nature is obviously the model. You see, our technology now is a technology of heavy metals.
 high temperatures, I mean we weld things, we melt things, and when we build, we assemble pieces of things and then we bring them together under high pressure and high heat to make automobiles and aircraft and this sort of thing. Nature, notice that nature, meaning organic nature, not volcanoes and hot springs, but organic nature accomplishes all of her miracles under 115 degrees Fahrenheit. There's no welding of beryllium and this sort of thing. So we could do that too, and when you use cool temperatures like that, well then you don't generate toxic gases and strange physical byproducts like sulfur dioxide and mercuric oxide and all of this toxic material. So the machine age as we have known it was simply a very brief episode in human beings' relationship to the construction of prosthesis. I mean, I more and more think of it that way. I mean, the touching a tree to get to the internet, that's pretty far out. I mean, in other words, there are steps to that that we don't know how to take. But I've talked at other times to this group about what I call these black contact lenses, except they're not contact lenses, they're actual implants in the back of your eyelids so that when you close your eyes, there are menus hanging in space. That's not even nanotechnology. That's doable today. I mean, it might cost a billion dollars, but if it were a fighter plane, we could deliver it in six years. It's easily done. So what I hope will happen is that we will retract this bulky, toxic, archaic, industrially based infrastructure and become more and more aboriginal in our presentation to an observer, but in fact, through implants, prosthesis, nanosites crawling around on the surface of our skin and inside our bodies and in the environment and so forth and so on, we will actually be becoming, at the same time that we make our peace with nature, we will continue to technologically evolve toward whatever it is that we are evolving toward. I don't understand what it is. What did you make of it? That's the basic question. What do you make of this? Well, someone asked me to explain what you talked about, or what psychedelics, what, yeah, I guess in a sense I was trying to say something about how I feel, why would I come back today to listen to you. It wasn't a sense of hope, but it's more of a sense of understanding, I don't know, deepening of some sort of understanding of, like sometimes I'll comment like, well, how come, oh, I know what I was saying. I was saying that, how come humans think that they're more aware than the whole rest of the, everything else? And I was sitting at the, squatting down on the bath floor with a squirrel, I guess giving him a nut, and I was eating a nut, and we were just both there eating nuts and looking at each other eating the nuts. And I thought, you know. I noticed a lot of squirrels in the bath. Yeah, it's because of the cornmeal. That's partly my favorite. I should have known. But it's like, there, I felt like we were just sitting there eating nuts together, and we're on the same level. I was like, I was raising my eyebrows going, good luck, you know. And the squirrel was like eating this thing with his jaw, you know, I guess it didn't have eyebrows, you know, kind of answering back. And my thought was, well, the whole part of psychedelics is you start to feel like you're in oneness with all the other atoms around, whether it's a tree or rock or, you know, another human being or an animal or whatever. And it's that feeling of oneness that, rather than that thinking, oh, I'm more conscious than anybody, all the other animals on the planet, that you go, aha, and you feel really good about. And that's kind of that same feeling with psychedelics is you feel more connected with everything. And so in a sense, all of a sudden I thought, well, maybe this is a flip back, you know. Now we take psychedelics and we feel the separation of, ah, yes, I'm more, you know, of higher consciousness, rather than the original, which was the union with everything. Well, one of the things my brother mentioned this weekend to me was the idea that maybe we could come to a place where every eye that looks out at nature had intelligence behind it. And the concept of human intelligence, you know, that dead song, you are the eyes of the world. If we could somehow disperse intelligence into nature, I mean, maybe this is what the human mission is, is to bring intelligence into focus and then somehow give it back and awaken the natural world. Not to say that it isn't awakened. Who can presume to know? Yeah, one of the nice things about being in Manhattan is you never have to worry that you're the smartest person in the room, because you never are. You know, in other places you might be able to get this together through intense social management, but there it fails, sort of like being in a rainforest in that sense. I was intrigued with some of the things you just mentioned in passing, like seeds from which cities would grow, and I wanted to know where I could learn more about those ideas. Well, visit Eric Drexler's webpage or read his book, The Engines of Creation. Yeah, this idea that the O's, which we talked about last night, were bio, techno, nano. I don't think we talked about fungo, but we certainly could. Spaghettios, Cheerios. Nanotechnology is moving so quickly, not because the army wants it or capitalism wants it, it's moving so quickly because all the best people refuse to work on anything else, simply because it's so cool. And, you know, why you should have 10,000 steam engines on a one centimeter chip, and what can you do with a steam engine that produces one ten-thousandth of a millinewton of force and costs, you know, .0 mil to produce? It remains to be seen. I mean, it's an entirely different way of thinking about what machines are. I mean, not only, as I talked about last night, getting away from toxic high temperatures, but just the power over matter that that represents is some kind of arrival at the end of a long technological road that we've been pursuing since the first flint was chipped maybe half a million years ago. The holy grail of nanotechnology is this thing called a matter compiler, and a matter compiler does to matter what an SGI indigo does to graphic images, in other words, anything you can imagine, and it builds three-dimensional objects essentially out of air, out of mud, out of slurry, seafloor, some rich, heavy metal rich slurry of material is coming into this thing, and out of it are coming sewing machines, mandarin oranges, bicycles, electronic components, spaghettios, and in Neal Stephenson's novel The Diamond Age, rice. They're feeding China out of matter compilers. That's what I referred to last night when I said how revolutionary it would be to break the human agricultural cycle, and what a relief this might be for the earth if we didn't have to produce our food by ourselves.
 agricultural methods, vast amounts of the earth could be reclaimed or turned fallow. There have been revolutions like this before that have forestalled human and ecological catastrophe. For example, cities themselves, the decision of human beings about 10,000 years ago to aggregate very tightly into fixed settlements probably gave the earth a great deal of breathing room for a long time. If we had continued with our system of nomadic pastoralism, it required thousands and thousands of square miles to support very small populations. So, in a sense, there have been in the past episodes where we took steps to slow our impact on the environment. One of the funny things that emerges out of nanotechnology from my point of view is, you know, I'm very gung-ho for the idea that there isn't much time left and that 2012 represents this huge phase shift and it's only now 16 years away. But a funny thing, with nanotechnology, you can stretch time by a factor of a million. Even though 2012 is only 16 years away, with the correct technological approach, we can forestall it forever by simply scaling down, you know, scaling down. So that when you live in the domain and at the speed of microbes, 16 years is 50 million generations in the distant far-flung future. It's weird how time is plastic and subject to scale in that way. What is it about you that you focus on? If what the universe is doing is generating and then conserving and then novelty and then building further novelty upon it, well then, in some sense, we represent the novelty of novelties of novelty. We are where nature's eggs have tended to all roll to the bottom of the basket and we're it. And so then our role in transforming the planet, the ecosystem, our social systems and technologies and everything becomes much more part of the cosmic drama, a continuation of the evolutionary drama. And then the question, but the really weird part of this whole wrap is the nearness of this date. I think you could peddle this pretty easily if you were just vague about the date and said something like sometime in the next thousand years. And then people would see who couldn't line up for that. It's this, it is now thing, sort of the guy with the beard on the corner, repent and be safe. I don't know what led into that, but time is a very interesting problem and not well dealt with, I think, in Western science. Curiosity theory is very fuzzy and as the answers required or the questions asked in science become more precise, it becomes less satisfying. Albert, are you ready to go? No. No. Launch when ready. No. I'll ask just a query. Just tying back to something you were talking about with the nanomachines, you were saying that we could sort of stretch out time by scaling down. And the fact that sort of this great thing that was going to happen in 2012, you know, it was okay. That's the flavor of it. It was okay because we could sort of scale time up for us. We could learn to stretch it out. I'm just curious, and I'm bringing this up again or going back to this just because it sounds relevant. How time can be stretched out in that way, if you could talk more about that. Is it just about more events happening? Well, that's one thing. It's just simply more events happening. In other words, at that nano level, activity is so furious that in terms of events per second, there are millions of them at the quantum mechanical level. But there is a deeper level than that, and that is the attractor in the phase space, in the novelty theory, is somewhat like a black hole. Well, a black hole has this thing called an event horizon. And so to an observer exterior to the system, let's think of a spaceship approaching a black hole. To an observer outside the system, the spaceship appears to eventually disappear down the drain and is sucked into the hole. But because of relativistic stretching inside the hole, for the people on the spaceship, essentially they fall forever. They never reach. They never move beyond the event horizon. And so time is very plastic and slippery, and you cannot assume that what one observer is assuming is general for the system. That's why I'm very sort of tongue-in-cheek about all these apocalyptic prophecies and when we get there and what will it be like and those kinds of questions, because it is a singularity, it's bound to be hideously slippery and difficult to actually confront. So falling forever, like for instance, one way to think of the time wave, because it  and for the group I'll say  the assumption that is operating in novelty theory is that you have a series of nested cycles and that each cycle is 164th as large as the cycle that preceded it. So let's say we start, just for purposes of example, with a universe whose age is 72 billion years. That's a lot longer than is thought to be the age of this universe, which is somewhere between 12 and 16 billion years. They're fighting over it now in the Captain's Tower. But let's imagine a universe of 72 billion years with a built-in collapse factor of 64 and a nested set of cycles of natural law. Well then, 1.8  divide 72 by 64 and it's a number like 1.3 or something. So 1.3 billion years before you got to the end of this 72 billion year universe, there would be a transition into a new regime of natural law. Maybe it's biology. Well then, divide 1.3 billion years by 64 and you get, I don't know what, let's take a guess, 275 million years. So a new set of emergent phenomena come into the picture at that point. Let's call them advanced higher animals, land animals. Well then, the next cycle is 1.4 million years, or 2.5 million years. So let's call that the emergence of the higher primates. And the next is 175,000 years. Let's call that the emergence of Homo sapien. And the next is 4,500 years. Let's call that the history of the world. And the next is 67 years. Let's call that World War II to 2012. And the next is 384 days. And that's the year of the jackpot that begins late in 2011. Now notice that at this point we have gone through six or seven levels. In order to get to the domain of Planck's constant, 6.55 times 10 to the minus 23rd erg seconds, technically known as a jiffy. In order to get down to the realm of the jiffies, which is the grain of the universe in quantum mechanical terms, it's going to take 13 more involutions of that cycle.
 So, what we're saying is a universe structured like this, with this collapse factor in it, a universe 72 billion years old, would undergo two-thirds of its morphological unfolding. In other words, two-thirds of its developmental processes would occur in the last six days of its existence. Do you see what it is? It's the spin-in, it spins faster and tighter. So half of the evolutionary unfolding of that kind of universe would occur in the last few days of its existence. Most of it would occur in the last few milliseconds as it transited level after level after level. That's the kind of situation that I think we're in. And each epoch becomes a dimension for the expression of feeling and complexity in some kind of Whiteheadian sense. Each one of these is in and of itself a universe of feeling and intentionality in the history of the universe as it makes its way toward the point singularity where all things are cotangent and all limitations are overcome. So trying to feel where we are in that process, saying there are only 16 years left, is one way of thinking of it. Another way of thinking of it is that the universe still has two-thirds of all of its development ahead of it in the future. Does that address your thing? Yeah, no, that's helpful. Thank you. I'm curious if you have any ideas about what happens at that singularity. I mean, does time lose meaning? Is it just kind of like asking the question, where's the point south of the South Pole? I'm just curious what happens to time at that point. Is there something like 2013 or are we just sort of in a... I mean, what I guess I could imagine is that just because... I mean, I'm just... Well, it seems to me what happens is that this cotangentiality phenomenon is happening now. In other words, what's happening is that three-dimensional space and time is becoming more and more connected. Everything is becoming more connected. Well then, so the logical extrapolation of that process is that you will approach a point in time where everything is connected to everything else. So then the question becomes, or the question that's being asked is, what happens after that? And I think the answer is that the process of connectivity somehow bursts out of the dimensional confinement and then you get an entry into hyperspace, whatever that means. In other words, the information has filled the system and somehow then it bursts the bounds of the system in some kind of a Gredelian explosion of some sort. And then it begins to define itself in a higher dimension. And life, we see that nature does this. We just can hardly imagine what it is like to experience it, A, and what it is like in a regime of conscious intelligence. One thing that I've thought about trying to imagine all this happening without the direct descent of God Almighty into the stream of history and such imponderable and difficult to picture scenarios as that, is there something that could arise out of us which would fulfill this and somehow everybody could say, yeah, well, they were right and that did happen, but nevertheless we can still, you know, have sausage for breakfast. Well, one thing that I've thought of, and I've talked in these groups about it a little bit, is what the vicissitudes of the wave seem to describe most accurately when all the shouting is done is technological and intellectual advance. And so is it possible that this bursting out of the Newtonian three-dimensional space-time continuum could be a technological breakout and it could take the form of a very, very powerful engine of some sort, like that could push a large mass close to the speed of light, but more appealing and easier to understand, I think, is a time machine. But it occurs to me that there may be something else happening here. And again, to understand it, here's a metaphor. Notice that we live in an extremely high-tech world with the internet and, you know, potential AIDS vaccines and interplanetary probes and all that. But some people in this world are bare-ass naked in the rainforest trying to decide if they're going to go with boats, which they've been observing and have now decided are here to stay. Well, if you ask the question, who's influencing who, clearly we have an overwhelming influence on these rainforest people. Their lifestyles are crumbling under an onslaught of transistor radios, packaged food, pornography, blah, blah, blah. Meanwhile, I don't see anything happening around here except maybe an occasional shaman is brought through that indicates that they're having much of an impact on us. Well, so imagine if it were possible to have a technology of time travel. I think that what would happen in that case is that what one would think of as time travel would instead turn into a technology for causing the rest of history to happen instantly. In other words, to avoid all of these paradoxes, you would initiate, you know, the temporal equivalent of a chain reaction and the rest of history would just unravel on the real very quickly so that the most technologically advanced state would spread backward through the temporal medium in the same way that the most advanced cultural state in the world today is spreading through the spatial medium of the planetary geography. Do you see what I mean? It's a kind of a god whistle. You think you're building a time machine, but what you discover the moment you turn the time machine on is that you have brought the final evolutionary achievement of the universe appears right on your front step in the next millisecond. Yeah. You were talking about dissipative structures before, and how I understood it is that you're taking like negative entropy in it, more structure, but you give some waste out all the time too. And if you see the globe, or like all the human societies on the earth, like a dissipative structure, there needs to be the waste somewhere, and you need to create a distance between these structured systems and the waste somewhere around, and I wonder how you put that together with your theory of time or of normality. Well, the entire planetary environment is an open system because it's being run off extraterrestrial energy delivered by the sun. If it weren't for the sun, the earth would quickly go into crisis. There is no problem with the generation of waste as long as the generation of waste cycle doesn't exceed the capacity of the system to absorb it. And this is our problem, not that we produce waste, but that we produce it too fast. One of the things my brother pointed out was if you really believe nanotechnology is coming, then the shrewdest investment that you can make are landfills, because landfills are filled with metal, glass, plastic, rare elements, rare chemicals, all these things which these little nanocytes, these flea-sized and smaller robots, are going to go after. Those will be the great mining...
 and extraction sites of the future, quite logically, because you'll be using all of that material. It's already in a highly refined state. In fact, the great thing about nanotechnology is because these machines are so small, the current standing crop of metals presently on the earth is probably enough for the rest of human history, if it's a nanotechnological history. There would be no need to extract more gold, more platinum, more iridium. We have enough for nanotechnological purposes, probably by orders of magnitude, we have enough. The goal is to take nature as the model and to say, okay, we want to build things. Well, who's been building longest? Nature. Who's been building most efficiently? Nature. Who's been building with the least toxic output and so forth and so on? Nature, nature, nature. So we are builders. So let us learn then from the master builder. And of course, until we can do it perfectly, we will do it imperfectly, but more perfectly than we're doing it now. We finally at last sort of cited what the deal is with building stuff. Oh, it's supposed to be biodegradable, non-toxic, user-friendly, nutritious, brightly colored, you know, whatever. And so the way nature does it is atom by atom and using, you know, molecular long chain polymers with molecular transcription to run through ribosomes, which read these things. I mean, as you descend into the molecular and the sub-molecular realm, it becomes startlingly machine-like. I mean, nature is the perfect machine. There is no difference. Our machines are hideous and, you know, run at high temperatures, are toxic. That's part of the question I have is, you know, nature already made like you put this little seed in the ground and it turns into a huge tree. And how can we improve on that? It seems like it's already a perfect system that's been developed. Well, we, it is a perfect system developed for the ecosystem in which it inserts itself. I mean, it's a product of evolution. We, by being minded, have, we can use the techniques of nature to serve the design agendas of culture or of human society. That's the difference. I mean, really my vision is of a partnership. I don't, I think that I talked last night about what I call the forward escape, where there's no way back to simplicity, not without slaughtering four out of all five people. You know, I mean, even a billion people is too much. There's no way back to the simplicity that we once knew, but there may be a way forward to the simplicity that we once knew. But we have to become fully responsible and entirely capable, you know, not half responsible and half capable, which is the present situation. Capability means power, immense power. But power means responsibility. In other words, we can't evade our, the curious moral dimension that attends our enterprise, given the fact that we are conscious beings, but we can be responsible. Like my notion is really, in a sense, the human imagination, which is our great glory, has grown so powerful that we can barely unleash it on the surface of the planet. I mean, it's like trying to drive a fire truck around the nursery. The nursery can't handle this. The nursery is small and confined. So responsibility means respecting nature, but also making a place for the novelty that is resident in the human possibility, because nature also did that. I mean, nature risked everything on this planet, on this particular experiment. And I imagine nature is well-pleased. I mean, we're as successful as everything else nature ever attempted to do. I mean, when she wanted to make octopi, she made them. When she wanted to make machine-building, neurotic, tormented human beings, she made them in spades. Well, what if something like the Cultural Revolution in China were to occur? There you had a group of people who decided to destroy everything that was old and traditional in that culture. What if humans came to the point where they realized that all our technology was so grossly unsatisfying that we just kind of went on some kind of rampage to destroy everything that was modern and technological in some kind of self-destructive mode in order to get back to a more nature-based, satisfying lifestyle? Well, this could probably be done, but I would bet you that as soon as people pick themselves up off the floor, they'd start the long march forward again. Because I think tool-making is what we do, and it's just irrepressible. We are the creature, in the same way that abalones make abalone shells, we construct technologies. It's irrepressible, I think. I mean, it might take different directions, like maybe you're thinking of Dune, where, and this was in Frank Herbert's science fiction novel, they had a rule, thou shalt make no machine in the image of the human mind. And in the name of this rule, they had destroyed all computers, and consequently, they were telepathic, and they had powers of language and telepathy. But on the other hand, it was a startlingly primitive world. I mean, our thing is not, I don't think we can, our machines are such a basic part of our cultural toolbox now. For instance, you know, the world price of gold is set every day by machines. The decisions as to how much titanium and silver should be extracted from mines to enter the pipeline of the manufacturing process, this is all determined by machines. Now in Silicon Valley, when they want to design a chip with certain, to meet certain engineering specifications, they don't design the architecture of the chip, they tell machines what they want the chip to do, and machines actually make the design decisions. So, but I don't find this horrifying at all. I mean, I remember in the 50s, one of the fantasies was that we would, in the future, we would live in a world run by machines. Well, instead we live in a world run by politicians, mafias, advertising conspiracies, pharmaceutical companies, and political pressure groups. I'd take machines any day against that crowd, and their wonderful impartiality, and yeah. I mean, that, when listening, that's the question I ask myself, is this radical change of psychology with the power base, with our concept of what power is, our egos hanging on, is it the return to this pre-ego state with a technology to assist us? In a sense, I think it is, because I think you're right, that power has always before meant ideology. The Christians had the power, or the Marxists had the power, or the Nazis, or the communists. Now, I feel like we have come to the end of ideology, that the bankruptcy of ideology is displayed for all to see, and that the business of government and destiny, which used to be in the hands of ideologues,
 has moved over into the hands of managers and it's all become rather hum-drum. It's all about, you know, will the investment policies support the health care promises made to the population? Will the production of drugs meet the demands created by the ebb and flow of epidemic diseases? It's all about management. I think our exhaustion with ideology is very healthy. I'm not, I don't think there are good and bad ideologies. All ideology is bad and it's taken us, you know, a thousand years to sort this out and we had to have Auschwitz and we had to have Stalingrad and we had to have just how many times did you have to have your nose rubbed in it before you realize, you know, that ideologies are cultural means. They are the most confining of the cultural means. I mean that's where culture gets real ugly is when you rub up against its ideologies. So by turning a lot of these middle management and bureaucratic functions over to machines, we're signaling that we're not interested in that anymore. And yet the ego, I see ego as alive and well as it's ever been in my lifetime. Well ego is not the same thing as ideology. I agree with you. What we now have, and this is this question that keeps coming up in so many different forms, what we now have is the freedom which attends decadence or the decadence which attends freedom. By being liberated from ideology, we essentially are invited to be all we can be, but we are free, in James Joyce's phrase, to flop on the seamy side. And, you know, without Christianity, without democracy, without you know these great inspiring, and so this is the question why does all freedom end in sadomasochism? Why does it do all efforts at liberation end in recidivism and repression? Is this a natural law or this is to we've had a bad string of experiences with this but it's not written adamantine? For me it's an issue of are we afraid of ourselves? And we inherit a huge bunch of ideological baggage, not only Christianity, but Freudianism and Marxism, which requires, you know, a dictatorship of the proletariat and so forth and so on. We inherit all kinds of ideological baggage designed to make us fear ourselves. I mean what is held against any theory of excess freedom is that it will bring chaos and anarchy. Well, this may be precisely what the doctor ordered. Beyond ideology lies chaos and anarchy. The fact that the internet is so chaotic is, I think, its great charm. It seems like a frontier, you know, no law west of the modern yet, and hopefully not for a while. I mentioned in another context, but not to this group, but I guess this is in the air, this French historian, and I don't know exactly how to pronounce his name, but Raoul Wannigan, who wrote this thing called the Brotherhood, the Movement of the Free Spirit, and it discusses a heresy that had great currency in the Middle Ages, and the heresy had many names and different forms, but it always revolved around the proclamation that human beings are perfect. Human beings are perfect, and it was fascinating to feel my own reactions as I read this, because I certainly am, I don't consider myself Catholic in reflex, and I'm trying to be a good anarchist, and I lean toward the idea that man is perfect, but reading about a group of people who absolutely believed and acted this out pushes you up against it, because, you know, if man is perfect, theft is all right, murder is all right, murder of your own children is all right, on and on and on, so then you think, well then, so, hmm, so apparently I don't think man is perfect. Well then, so where do I draw the line? The fact that people in the 1200s could make this leap to proclaim this, and then to live it, they lived it, so they didn't work, and they didn't stay in the villages, and no one would have anything to do with them except people who agreed with them, and so there were these, there was this counterculture in medieval Europe of these large camps of people outside major towns, where everybody who was there, by being there, was committed to the idea that anyone could have sex with anyone else, that anyone could take anything by anyone else and use it as their own, that no one had to answer to anyone else, that there was no authority, so forth and so on. Well, the church burned these people with endless zeal, you can imagine, and even for us, reading this, it shows you how deeply we carry the idea of our shadow, and how profoundly convinced we are that we pose a great danger to each other, and that we must mitigate this with law, and rules, and psychotherapy, and drugs, and high walls, and so forth and so on. This bombing of these airplanes, and then the Olympics, and the stuff, on and on and on, is so clearly designed to replace the rather, I imagine, unviolent and humdrum world you live in. I mean, when was the last time you saw several people blown apart by plastique? Not recently, I'm willing to bet, unless you just shipped in from Algeria. But you're asked to give up your experience, and replace it with a media-created world of exploding airliners, sinister international organizations, and so forth and so on. This ability to use the deaths of what are trivial numbers of people. I mean, in the same week that these 200 people were blown out of the sky, 6,000 people died on the American highways, and there was not a mention of that. So the exaggerated focus on certain situations, and the deaths of certain designated high-profile groups of people, permits an incredible paranoia, and an incredible erosion of any effort to create community. These are decisions not made by machines. Machines would never act with so deep an insight into human psychology. These are decisions initiated by human managers, playing the old-style game. Well, it seems like it's not just managers, designers, individuals who love this kind of news, whose favorite type of entertainment that they pay to see is these violent movies of people being blown up. Well, we are all guilty to the degree that we tolerate and consume this stuff. I mean, purience has always been the path to riches. Was it P.T. Barnum who said, nobody ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American people? I'm sure that that's quite true. So what do you ascribe to this desire that seems to arouse from individuals? Well, I personally, and I'm willing to extend it to my friends and my enemies, I personally do not enjoy seeing violence or people being tormented or children being abused or this sort of thing. When I was in Boulder, I met a friend of mine that I hadn't seen for 25 years and asked him what he was up to. And what he's doing is he's founded a company called Rocky Mountain Media Watch. And what they do is they have a hundred and fifty people who work for them.
 in 150 cities and once a week these people make a video cassette off the TV of the evening news, the local evening news hour, and they ship all these tapes to Boulder and they have rooms full of people watching these things on screens and scoring how much of this hour went to ecological stories, how much went to lost pet stories, how much went to toxic waste stories, how much went to the circuses in town stories, and I said, well, Paul, what is the deal with violence and what's going on? And he said, whoa, it's very simple. We've seen it thousands and thousands of times. In a half hour show, the most violent part of the show occurs immediately before the longest commercial and you are brought to this state of adrenal excitement. And I said, well, do people enjoy watching people shot and blown up? And he said, no, no, you can put electrodes on them and you can tell that it raises anxiety and it raises adrenaline levels. But he said the whole point is then you cut to the commercial, you bring on images of sexuality, of flesh, of soft music, and of the product. And the product then becomes associated with security. It's all about, look at this horrible death, manglement, horror, and this wonderful soap which will give you social confidence and make your hair shiny and your underarms inoffensive. And this game is played three or four hundred times a night with monkeys on the receiving end. People who take Ross Perot seriously and fear visits by alien proctologists, that population, are being subject to this hammering stimulus response thing. Well, it's no wonder that people are just totally clueless. The cultural engines are becoming almost unmanageably dangerous for the unsophisticated. This is what I meant last night when I said there are two kinds of people. There are artists and marks. Not in a tone of superiority, we're the artists and we're on the inside and so we're immune and the marks, fuck them, they're all lost souls. No, every one of us every day is tested to see, are you an artist or are you a mark? In this moment, are you an artist or are you a mark? In this situation, are you an artist or are you a mark? And everybody tumbles both ways several times a day. I don't know exactly what to do about it. I mean, Joseph Goebbels really turned it loose inside the 20th century. This has all been developed since the 30s. Advertising techniques, techniques of behavior modification, ways of insinuating complex messages into people and getting them to respond. The antidote is in that environment, you cannot flee from that. You cannot avoid it. What you have to do is produce output, output into this ocean of competing means. Output and subversion and sophistication. You have to be, I think, very, very, this is no environment for the credulous, the epistemologically naive, those driven by inner imbalances to adoration and belief. I mean, I really believe, I think I said last night, salvation through skepticism, hope through skepticism, because it's too difficult to tell what's going on. The only reliable indicators in this world are feelings and mathematics. And mathematics has been torn from you as an option in the process of infantilization that we're denouncing here. So all you have left are your feelings, 90% of us.

Terence McKenna - The Gnostic Astronaut - June 1984

What I want to talk about, and I don't really want to, I would like a discussion about it, if that's possible, is those components of the psychedelic experience which exceed either the psychedelic paradigm or raise the issue of violations of some kind of larger paradigm. And there are two areas where this is noticeable, and one is fairly common in the literature, and that's the report of telepathic phenomena and that sort of thing, which has been persistently a repressed sub-theme in psychedelic research ever since Havelock Ellis began experimenting with mescaline. And the other thing is a constellation of issues that seem to me related, although they may not seem related to you, and we touched on this this afternoon in Stan's talk, which is the question of the extraterrestrial connection, or whatever it is, and what do these things mean. The first thing I want to say about all this is there's been a phrase used by several people, which is the full spectrum of psychedelic effects. People will tell you at what dose the full spectrum of psychedelic effects occurs, or we heard yesterday that LSD elicits the full spectrum of psychedelic effects. But in fact there is no catalogue of psychedelic effects, and how does one know what the full spectrum is? It's a very tricky matter. What I have encountered at fairly high doses of psilocybin and on DMT, but strangely on nothing else that I find very interesting is the whole problem of interiorized voices, relationships with hidden agencies of uncertain parameters, and related to that states that I think the vocabulary we inherit from the religious systems that we've recently overthrown leave us with nothing to say about them but that they're states of possession, and the word demonic has been used but not defined, and it's somehow, it's a form of negativity that does not seem to be operational, but it's very upsetting nevertheless to people. So what I find and what I think is generally part of the shamanic practice of taking mushrooms is that at fairly low doses, meaning I can't speak of pure psilocybin, but at five dried grams, it's very easy to invoke a voice, a kind of logos-like phenomenon which operates as the typical hierophant. It's the teaching voice, it's Virgil to Dante, it's a very large and superior force which takes you by the hand and then narrates the various scenarios that you're conveyed through. And the trick, of course, is the trick that's such a conundrum of the literature of involvement with demons and devils, which is the trick is to get something out of it and get away clean, and the way that works operationally when tristing with the mushroom voice is it's the challenge to get it to tell you something that you're sure you didn't know already so that you can have some validation that you're not just talking to the back of your head. And though this sounds trivial at first, as you move into the dialogue with the other, it becomes apparent that it's going to be elusive. Mercurial is a word that suggests itself. Now, another aspect of the psilocybin intoxication, which may or may not be related to this, and that I have sort of, I guess, insisted upon more than anybody else, is that it triggers phenomena having to do with the language centers. Henry Munn, in a book called Halucinogens and Shamanism, edited by Michael Harner, talks about this, and I went to some lengths to talk to him about it, and I found out that, though he agreed with my opinions on the subject, he didn't hold them nearly as strongly as I did, and to him it had been a fairly elusive and upsetting phenomenon. But this is a form of glossolalia that I really am convinced is an affect of tryptamines that is a psychedelic affect, but I don't believe it happens with anything else. At least it doesn't happen in my experience with anything else, and the literature doesn't mention anything like this. It does not happen with ayahuasca, even though chemically you would think ayahuasca would have the same properties as the other tryptamine halucinogens. And so I want to describe a typical encounter with this phenomenon because a client has had this experience over a dozen times, and it's almost always unvarying. The problem is the client happens to be myself. So getting independent confirmation that this could happen to someone else has not been very easy. Nevertheless, I operate under the faith that there's nothing unique about me and that anything I could experience is a generally accessible human phenomenon. I think it would be preposterous to operate under any other kind of assumption. In giving DMT to people casually over a number of years, only four people have reported the kind of phenomenon that I'm interested in. And of course, every single one of them had been primed by me. Nevertheless, the experiences of such an ontologically different modality that it's difficult to see how you could cue it to somebody. They would have to have it. And what it involves is a transformation of language into something which is no longer sound decoded by brain through the consultation of a culturally validated dictionary. Instead, it becomes sound which is beheld and meaning which is beheld. And this idea of a visible language, when it first came to me or when I first realized that that was the phrase I was going to have to use to describe what was happening, I had never heard or imagined of such a thing. But then I went back into the literature and I discovered that, as usual, the Greeks got there first, or at least in this case, the Jewish Greeks or the Greek Jews, because in Philo-Judeus, who was a contemporary of Christ, there's a discussion of what he calls the more perfect logos. And he says the more perfect logos will be apprehended through seeing, not through hearing. And yet it will cross from being heard to being seen without ever going through a noticeable moment when it shifts from one modality to the other. And this seems to be what is happening in the DMT flash when you smoke the freebase, not the hydrochloride, but when you smoke the freebase, you have this spontaneous experience of generating what you identify first as a thought and then as a sound, but which eventually becomes some kind of synesthesic linguistic modality for which we don't have words yet. Telepathy I always conceived of as looking into your own mind and hearing what someone else was thinking. But the notion that telepathy...
 might be someone speaking and producing a three-dimensional object in the air that could be rotated and mutually be held by the speaker and the listener had never occurred to me. But experiment with the DMT showed that this extraordinary kind of state is actually potentially triggerable again and again. And it's almost as though there is a sensorium of the world which in order to be reconstructed in the interior horizon of transcendence that is the being of a given individual, the sensorium has to be arbitrarily broken down into its perceptual components of sound, sight, odor, tactility, etc. And normally as it enters the human organism these categories which are arbitrary but as old as the human body itself are maintained, but they need not necessarily be maintained. The incoming sensory data can be recombined in such a way that no trace of the portal of entry is left upon it. And in that case you get this freely evolving topology of light and sound that is translinguistic. It has a grammar of form, if you will, so that it is not shorn of meaning, it is simply shorn of the kind of particularized meaning that logical necessity imposes on language. Instead it has an emotional richness, a kind of poetic depth that is not like ordinary language at all and in fact causes one to think of discussions of primary poetic languages such as the one that goes on in The White Goddess by Robert Graves where he wants to suggest that there is a proto-language, an ursprach that transcends conventionalized dictionaries, a language which to hear it is to understand it. And I think that this kind of organization of information lies at the basis of the psychedelic experience. In other words, you can think of cultural conventions and human languages as software languages that are historical adumbrations of an assembly language which is prehistoric and probably in the genes and antedates all notion of human conventionalizing of activity and is actually biologically the basis of language. As I said in the opening remarks, that if you want to see the thumbprint of God in the world, it seems to me the phenomenon of human language is where you look. I mean, human language is a psychic ability. I can make thoughts in your head by simply uttering certain small mouth noises and the degree of fineness of the images that I can produce in your head and you in mine through the use of small mouth noises is something which we're still exploring. I think that it's well known that the human animal has not appreciably evolved in 50 or 60 thousand years, possibly much longer. Once culture was established, the soma of the human species was relatively stabilized. Then change was no longer genetic. It became epigenetic. And you get, just as the stability sets in in the animal form, you begin to get this fantastic proliferation of epigenetic change in the form of the evolution of culture, languages, alphabets. It all seems to be related somehow to the encoding of information. And the psychedelic state also seems to be about the revelation of kinds of information which are normally either not efficacious or unavailable for other reasons. And it is not that culture is evolving. The evolution of culture is an epiphenomenon attendant upon the evolution of language. Language is the part of man which is evolving. Culture carries along. At the present moment, we are able to speak 21st century ideas to each other, but our culture is carrying along at about the 1950s level. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this thing which psilocybin does to the language-producing part of the brain is not then some mere affect, some trivial affect of an obscure hallucinogen on a peripheral part of the brain. It means that it is in fact a catalyst for evolution because it is a catalyst for the evolution of language. We are not going to move into the future until we create that future through language. And the hardest thing to cause to change is language. It has an immense inertia because it is so unselfreflective of itself. And this is what we need to inject into it, is an element of self-reflection so that the evolution of language can become more conscious and less random because it is the non-randomizing of the evolution of language that will give us a real hold on the kinds of social modalities that we want to produce in the future. Now, I don't know if the tryptamine-induced glossolalia will have a major role to play in that. It may be simply one of the many promising scintillas or sparks thrown off by the psychedelic experience that invites exploration. But certainly all of these things, the chanting, the glossolalia, the inner discourses with alien forces, the self-examination of one's own motives, all of these things are linguistic activities and go on in the context of linguistic action. It seems to me that what these drugs synergize is cognitive activities of all sorts. This is why originally they were called consciousness-expanding drugs. And this synergy of cognitive activity has to be taken very, very seriously because it's having a massive effect on our society. As individuals, we tend to concentrate on the 6 to 12 hours following the ingestion of a given drug. But the real impact is a societal impact that is spread out over decades. And I don't think that there's any question at all but what the best part of the social program of the LSD reformers of the 60s has been enacted in large measure. It's simply that it's at a profane level, not pleasing to the purest. But I believe that people have deeper and subtler senses of humor. I think people have more refined aesthetic sensitivity. I think people have a greater sensitivity to the mysteries of human interaction simply because so much LSD was taken in the 60s. And these are permanent changes that will not be wiped out. Our language is largely in the place where it was left by about 1969. But from the period of 1959 to 69, dozens of concepts and notions, ego trip, bummer, flashback, rupture of plane, all of these terms were invented that allowed a handle on the experience. And essentially, the whole 20th century cultural experience has been an effort to create languages of sufficient power to give descriptions of the internal transcendence of being as we experienced it in the present at hand. And Stan touched on this this afternoon, the Freudian interest in the repression of desire and the placement of the critical period in childhood, in other words, out of the present.
 but still within the context of the life, of the experience. And then Jung bringing in, trying to say, well, it's that, but it's more than that, and bringing in the notion of a collective unconscious. But it isn't that these guys were describing the unconscious or limiting or delineating the unconscious. It was that they were going through linguistic forms of metamorphosis in an attempt to describe what was a black box, which essentially, I think, still eludes them. Because though the Jungian model was fairly satisfying, I think, by, we'll say, the middle 40s, it was just at that time that then these psychedelic agents began coming on. And what they show is that if we keep the Freudian term, the unconscious, then huge portions of the unconscious seem to have very little to do with human beings, individually or collectively. And that large portions of the unconscious present themselves more like a topological manifold, in other words, more like a place that is no more interested in the traumas or repressed wish fulfillment of human beings than boulders, wildflowers, and waterfalls are interested in these things. In other words, the unconscious began to take on the character of a dimension rather than a repository of energy. It seemed to be instead something deployed spatially that could be entered into. And immediately, of course, the literatures and traditions and mythologies of the world were searched. And we discovered, yes, shamanism. There is a tradition of a therapeutic practitioner who, in order to cure his patient or himself, goes to a place. And then there are many descriptions. It's either an ascent through cosmic levels or a descent into an inferno or into the center of the earth or into a cavern. But the stress was on the spatial metaphor that it was a place. And I think that the psychedelics are beginning to confirm this in a way that's very hard for us to assimilate. In other words, it seems as though the science fiction metaphor of another dimension is actually in some ways more applicable than these reductionist models which wanted to say, well, it's a representation of a certain symptomatology or it's a representation of a certain past event system. It doesn't seem to be like that. And it raises questions about the relationship of the mind to the body, which I talked about the first night, that are very interesting. One of the things, again, that Stan touched on this afternoon was what he called synchronistic events attendant upon taking psychedelic drugs. And this means that you take a psychedelic drug and then someone you've been thinking of who lives far away shows up at your doorstep, this kind of thing. Jung, the word synchronicity was coined by Jung and it means a meaningful coincidence. But I think it was P.D. Bridgman who said that a coincidence is what you have left over when you apply a bad theory. And there can be just so many of these meaningful coincidences before somebody has to stand up and say, hell, this can't be coincidences, meaningful or otherwise. Something else is happening here. And on psilocybin, and I think it's based on anecdotal material, but I think it's generally true of other psychedelics in varying degrees, the synchronistic component is more like a poltergeist phenomenon. It's as though there are small eddies of autonomous psychic energy that disturb the periphery of awareness. It's the rats in the wall phenomenon. The scratchings, the rustlings, fire flarings need to be studied. The phenomenon of people lying on floors silent for hours and then sitting up at the very moment that the fire flares, the window blows open, the baby cries, almost as though there are waves of compression of coincidence, connectedness. What is it? I'm not sure. Coincidence control. Something like that, that move through a modality. So all of these things suggest that actually we don't know what we're doing with psychedelics, that because things that you put into your mouth that are not foods must necessarily be medicines, we have assigned these things to our doctors to explain to us. And I noticed in the first talk this afternoon it was said, well, there's the schizotoxin theory, the psychotomimetic theory, then there's also the theory that these things induce religious experiences. But so did the psychiatrists who figured this out immediately step aside and make room for priests? Or what was the conclusion of that model of how it should be done? So I don't think they are... I think it's odd that our reaction to them was to immediately say, well, if you're dying of cancer, we'll give it to you. If you're seriously neurotic, you can be put on the waiting list. Everybody else hit the streets if you're interested. There is this notion that what we all experience is mental health and certainly doesn't require any drug intervention because it in fact is normality. But Jung and others have had more the idea of an open-ended process, that there is an unlimited potential for understanding and for coming to terms with being in the world and for opening up to other people. And I think that it would be very interesting to take the approach that these things should be restricted to people of often exceptional ability, that going along with winning the Nobel Prize was your license to possess and take psychedelics and to hand them out to your friends. It's interesting that when this was all being hashed out at the very beginning, it was Huxley, it was Aldous Huxley's notion that this is how it should be done. He said, you know, engineers, artists, diplomats, administrators, people must be exposed to these things. And then somewhere along the line I think personalities arose with messianic tendencies and the notion became that you would count success in millions of followers rather than in the quality of the people who were taking it. And that proved a sad thing because the society in which that conception arose had a demographic bulge in the 12 to 30-year-old group and it just all ended rather badly. So, as I said at the beginning, there's no conclusion about all of this stuff. It is the frontier. There is a very large frontier. We're very fond of the notion of an ever-expanding sphere of understanding. But has anyone stopped to notice that if you have an ever-expanding sphere of understanding, necessarily the surface volume of the frontier of the unknown becomes larger and larger. So, you know, it's like building a bonfire bigger and bigger to convince yourself that there is an awful lot of darkness. So I think, you know, the key to getting around the cultural momentum that has placed us in this position is to return to the Beethovenian method which is simply the collection of facts and the examination of them until patterns emerge and that then the major datum for thinking about the psychedelic experience should be the experience.
 And that the pharmacology and all of these things, they will elucidate operational details of how these things function at the wetware level. But they will never elucidate the component which is beheld by the experience in confrontation with the drug. In fact, it's silly to demand that of them because that's not the kind of information that they are able to deliver. In fact, no system of thought is able to deliver that kind of a description. That has to come from the individual. And that's why I am fond of speaking of these things as deconditioning agents. Because what they show you is that each man, each woman, their own Magellan. You need no longer participate in a pyramid of information where it's filtering down to you from the scientific, medical, governmental and military elite being explained by CBS, NBC, Newsweek and Time. You can discover actually that the adventure of being is not a cultural adventure. It's not a societal adventure. It's a personal adventure. And that this is what you really need to be involved in. And all this is happening. This is why shamanism has gained such a hold. Because it's a metaphor for personal responsibility. And I think we all take personal responsibility for the evolution of our worldview. Psychedelic people, I'm referring to, take responsibility for the evolution of their worldviews. But still, we operate under the shadow of what's right to say about it and what's not right to say about it. For instance, the UFO thing is a cultural taboo and not believed in by nice, intellectually nice people. It's more the province of telephone line repairman and that sort of slice. But the fact of the matter is that no matter how much it may discomfort drug researchers and UFO people, because each is struggling to gain respectability in an inherently dubious field. But actually, I think there would be a fertile advance made if these two groups could talk to each other. Some people hearing me say that must wonder what in the world I'm talking about. How can a problem of unidentified aircraft be related to the phenomenology of the psychedelic experience? But you see, it isn't so much a problem of unidentified aircraft. It's a problem of not recognizing that the entire spectrum of existence is embedded in a linguistic model that is created by the workings of minds. And that mind is an imponderable, and yet it's set at the beginning of the equation. In 1978, a very spectacular daylight meteorite crossed the United States from east to west. It required about 35 seconds for it to go from one side of the country to the other. There was no warning that this thing would occur. And in the 35 seconds that it was over the continental United States, thousands and thousands of people saw it. But we got 32 very good photographs of it from different points along the ground. Two movies of it from two different points along its pathway. And it was very well documented. UFOs have been visiting people and appearing all over the world for 30 years. And the hardware faction can't come up with anything. So it seems clear to me that what we're dealing with is a kind of mass psychic phenomenon of some sort. And it's very interesting that one of the anecdotal things in circulation about psychedelics is that they are actually catalysts for this kind of thing. And what this means is not clear, but it should certainly be investigated. I mean, if there's a chemical agent which can repeatedly trigger a phenomenon that bizarre, it should be looked at. Jung very early suggested in a book called Flying Saucers, a modern myth of things seen in the sky that he published in 1948, that it was in fact a projection of the mass psyche, that it was assimilable to the goals of alchemical transubstantiation. He called it the rotunda, the scintilla, the spark, the spinning thing. And it's all these things, but it is the clue that we are somehow trapped inside some kind of artifice. That the world that we're inside of is much more like a work of art than it is like the smooth-running mechanistic machine that Newtonian science describes. That description works very well for all low-grade phenomena, up to about the level of the weather. But from there on, the notion that the world is simply probabilistic processes following these various creodes of least resistance becomes very untenable. Because each of us, in our experience of being, lives in a highly theatrical world. And what I mean by that is that you can see a woman at a great distance from you, in class, in opportunity, all of these things. And you fall in love with this woman, and it's hopeless. But of course, as we all know, it's also inevitable. And that inevitability totally violates physics, because it really is hopeless. How is it, then, that each of our lives is a work of art? Of unbelievable chance encounters, coincidences, and wishes projected onto the world, but never spoken and strangely fulfilled in the oddest ways. I think that it's because the world is made of language, and that if the Eastern conception that the universe is mind has any operational impact in the world, it will be through conceiving of mind as the underlying, self-aware, self-active, world-forming grammar of being. So that what Freud called the superego, what I call the overmind, there have been different ways of talking about it, has to be seen not as a passive homeostatic controlling device, but actually as the most intelligent organization on this planet. And we are all only components of this, believing ourselves to be the highest expression of freedom. But it is actually at the species level that organization is controlled. And that's why the emergence of ideas like the calculus, or the invention of LSD, or the steam engine, why these things have this curious property of being regulated from above, it's because the world is not nearly as chaotic and random as we suppose. We are actually trapped inside a giant organism, and it is not Gaia, that's a much larger organism. We are trapped inside a large organism, which is the human collectivity. And that's why we are such different monkeys, because there is this group mind, which none of us is aware of, or has ever perceived, that is actually mediating the human experience. And it is no more apprehendable to us than the group mind of an anthill is apprehendable to us. It can't be seen. What it is, is it's an interlocking set of conventions, linguistic directions, genetic components, assumptions, and what for lack of a better word you would call innate tendencies. And these things, which we wear as the clothing of our specieshood, are actually the constraints directing us first one way.
 and then another, and if we want to take control of our destiny, we are going to have to rise into empathy with this overmind, this superego. And there's no reason to think this can't be done. I'm sure you're all familiar with Julian Jaynes' theory that until very recently, in fact until Homeric times, everyone heard voices in moments of crisis. If you were in a moment of crisis, suddenly and quite naturally, a voice spoke in your head and said, you know, get the hell out of there, or do something. And everyone understood that this was God, or the king, or the dead king. It depended on where you located in the Middle East. But there were people who traded between these various locations. And the first cynics is what they were, because they noticed that over at Ur, God spoke to everybody. But down at Nineveh, it was the dead king who everybody heard in their head. And this logical discrepancy cast doubt, and they became the first people to not hear the voice, but to assimilate it. And this is what we call the ego. It is what we experience as the self. Something which 2,000 years ago was a god, which only intervened in human affairs to save lives and give heavy advice, has become for each of us the central focus through which we mediate our sensorium and project models of the world. So it is not, we are far more plastic than we realize. And I think what Stan was saying tonight, about how the goal is to be in the, I forget the term, the hylolytic, the matter-oriented side of it, but to have this awareness, a complete awareness of the other side, so that you are simultaneously locked in Newtonian space-time and the parameters of the situation, and you are simultaneously liberated into a complete awareness of the other potential. And the way I recognize that state, and this may be idiosyncratic, but I can tell I'm in that state when, no matter what I'm doing, and no matter where I go, I can see the Earth hanging in space by simply referencing that image and discovering it present in my head in a way that is not like a thought or something artificially induced. It's a real modality that is present and accessible. And I think that means, you know, that you have enough of yourself committed to the overmind that you're operating in the light of it. And then many consequences flow from that that are efficacious at the personal level. For instance, there's something which has been called the Tao of the ancestors. What that means, I think, is simply that for each one of us there is a way to do the things we must do that is the most energy-efficient way to do it. And I'm talking about opening a door, picking up a fork. The best way to do it is to follow the creode that is the Tao of the ancestors, to recognize that you are a genetic expression, a partial genetic expression of a gene pool which has received genetic expression at each generation in your family for thousands and thousands of generations, and that you are just the latest recension of this gene pool. Then you release the ego and you act with this awareness. These are psychedelically induced states of being that I think make it easier to live in the world. And how many of them are there? Who knows? For instance, under the influence of psilocybin in the Amazon, I noticed what I am completely convinced is an atrophied human ability. It's a very simple ability, but we have lost it. It's the ability to know how to walk from point A to point B, not following the shortest distance, but following automatically the path of least resistance, so that you don't go down into valleys and then climb hills. You automatically stay on ridges, even though you take more circuitous paths to your goal. And I could feel this sense working. It was just like a part of the dashboard that had previously been covered up was uncovered. Here was the human sense, which we don't particularly need because we've erected linear cities where the path of least resistance usually is a straight line. But you can imagine people in rugged country, this is a sense which would confer great survival adaptability and be tremendously important. So, I think that what we need to do is tease these human abilities out of the psychedelic experience, that really the psychedelic experience is like an intimation of immortality. And at varying distances in time from the point you occupy, it shows you ever more vague intimations of the future, but they are there nevertheless. Language is probably somehow related to the endogenous hallucinogens in the human brain. The evolution of culture is probably related to these things. It's been suggested that DMT in the brain is mediating what we experience as attention, that when you look and look hard, something is happening in the brain having to do with DMT, that it mediates awareness in a very moment-to-moment way. The future evolution of mankind is going to be based on these states, but the last point I want to make is one about how evolution occurs. It isn't that a mutation happens and it confers greater adaptability upon an individual, and therefore that individual and his offspring numerically gain over competitor individuals of the same species. This is not how it works. The way it works is you have constant mutating of a gene pool from the influx of cosmic radiation and other factors. There is always a low level of mutagens, of mutants in a population, but they are of no consequence as long as the selective parameters remain the same. But when the selective parameters change suddenly, these individuals who were previously masked in the general population, the selective advantage that they have now comes immediately to the fore, and they act very quickly and critically to send the evolution of a given species off in a different direction. This is why the fossil record progresses in fits and starts, because sudden shifts of environment cause the apparent emergence of new types. It isn't that they cause it, it's that the new types were always there, but not with any advantage. It's that the new situation has conferred a sudden advantage on them, and they are moving then into positions of dominance in the population, or in society if we're talking about human beings. I think that the psychedelic experience is like that at the present level. It has conferred... There is a population of different people in the general population, and as conditions change, these people will be seen to have adaptive advantages. Without being metaphysical about it, an obvious adaptive advantage is what I call the deconditioning effect, that we live in a jungle of propaganda, you know, buy this, believe this, wear this. If you have a symbiotic relationship with a deconditioning agent, you're much more likely to thread your way through that with your soul and your bank account intact. So, this is one way of thinking of it, that what the psychedelics really do, I think, is release us from cultural machinery, and put you right up against the human essence, and say, you no longer have to pretend that you're Scotch-Irish, or Witoto, or Jewish.
 You can actually explore the human modality independent of the inertia of these exterior labels. And so it places responsibility, it raises questions of validity, existential honesty with oneself, and I think it promotes the moral life, which I don't think happens if you buy deeply into myths of the tribe. If you're a devoted practitioner of Marxism, fascism, capitalism, I don't think these things will lead you to the moral life because they don't arise out of experience. Experience is everything. These are drugs of experience. It's very important to take the moment seriously, reincarnation and all these things aside. What if this were your unique opportunity to unravel it all and not be caught in dissolution? Because I think that there is a potential for immortality, but it isn't assured. It is something which comes to the courageous, and somehow in the historical experience we've gotten the idea through orthodox religions that salvation comes to the subservient. And this is totally wrong. It is more like the Greek ideal of the hero, that if you are heroic enough, once you're dead you'll be a god. And I think this is what these things summon us all to. And the thing to look at are the things which don't fit any paradigm, the anomalies, the paranormal things, the self-transforming elf machines, the UFOs, all of these things. I don't know, it has to do with this whole thing. See, the alien is an archetype as well as whatever else it may be. I mean, if aliens didn't exist or don't exist, we would still invent them because it's the other. You know, I've made the metaphor that we have arrived at some kind of collective puberty, where we now are fascinated by the notion of a non-human partner. We're obsessed, as an adolescent is obsessed with sex, we're obsessed with the notion of alien love. We want this, and yet we have all the feelings about it that an adolescent brings to the early sexual experiences. It seems like an abyss, a devouring, a kind of giving up, impossible. And yet our historical development has led us to the place where we now realize this is possible. It's like finding out the facts of life. The facts of life are that there could be a girl next door, and now... Who's an alien. Who's an alien, of course. What other kind of girl next door could it be? So then, hmm, there's a girl next door. And so all the talk about the wonderful technical benefits that we would reap and all this, obviously it isn't that. It's an erotic fascination with the notion of the other that drives us, and perhaps this is why in the psychedelic experience the alien emerges so fully and completely, because it is a repressed notion. Although I've noticed in the history of the phenomenology of UFO contacts, the theme, it was first a light in the sky, then we had all these exotic abductions, and then in the last four or five years there are more and more persistent stories of sexual relations, pregnancies, this kind of thing. Well, this obviously means that, you know, we're growing up, we're getting older, the pressure is on to come to terms with how this thing is going to present itself. So steep. Yes. So, you know, it's hardly respectable to say these things anywhere. I mean, fortunately I work for a living, so I can say these things. But the amount of anecdotal material that would come pouring forth if these things were stressed, I think would shock everyone, and somehow it has to be taken out, and this is a really sensitive issue that is very hard to talk about. How can such a screwy notion be taken out of the hands of squirrels? In other words, we have no shortage of people assuring us that aliens of all sorts are channeling left, channeling right, this, that, the other thing. How the problem is the reverse of the problem in radiotelescopy, where they search the skies and get nothing. Our problem is just a cacophony of hysterical claim-making. Where do you begin, you know? The Arantia book, you've got the nine, you've got all kinds, and this is not a new phenomenon. It's, well, you could choose your point, but certainly since the onset of theosophy and Alice Bailey's school, and there's been a lot of channeling in the 20th century. So the problem is one of filters. Which aliens do you believe, and how do you tell garbage from the real thing? And I think this is a problem for information theorists. It's a poker-playing problem, essentially, and shouldn't be difficult to solve if we apply ourselves to it. It's just that for us, the notion of a dialogue with an interior other is psychopathy. So we're very leery of that, or we're very something of that. Anyway, I noticed that Sasha, when he described the phenomenology of psilocybin, didn't say a thing about self-transforming elf machines, or whispered messages from gods and demons. He did mention demons. So you're free to believe that this is the raving of an unhinged mind, but being a Jeremiah figure is a great tradition, and they usually have the last laugh. Are there any questions? This really could be the language before we tried to build the Tower of Babel. We all shared the same language, then it got split up because we were... The Ursprach, this is the term for that, Ursprach, the first language. Yes, that's what I mean by an assembly language. But the things that happen on psychedelics with language just defy rational apprehension. For instance, there's a Celtic saying that poetry is made at the edge of running water, and I've noticed on psilocybin at times that as you approach running water, like a river or a waterfall, you begin to think in rhyme. It's sprung verse, and it seems preposterous. You say, you know, this is too crazy to mention to anyone, and you're right. But nevertheless, it's happening, you know. And as you leave the river, thought becomes perfectly normal. And people say, well, white noise is doing this. That's an explanation. And, you know, or you look at historical phenomena. Mohammed, it turns out, spoke in verse, and it was considered a sign of election. Glossolalia with shaman is not that rare. Spirit voices. It happens without drugs all the time. Yes, although, I don't know if you know this book by Sylvia Goodman called Speaking in Tongues, which is, as far as I know, the major work in English. It's done strictly from the sociological approach, but there is some physiological data. The most interesting being that on the floor of these Costa Rican churches where she did her research, after these sessions, they would measure pools of saliva 18 inches across, deposited by single individuals. Also, what was going on was there was a lot of hyped-up, you know, hallelujah-type stuff. And then someone would fall into the glossolalia and utter a burst of it and then be like, almost like a post-epileptic situation. And they would turn to the people.
 around them and say did I do it did I really speak in tongues this is not what the DMT glossolalia is like what it is and I'll take a minute and describe it because I'm not with me but but I'll describe how it comes because I think people often say to me well I took mushrooms and nothing like that ever happened well the first time it happened to me was the first time I smoked DMT and I'm not sure that it would happen on psilocybin if you didn't have a lead into it you have to invoke it in other words it isn't that psilocybin causes it and this is interesting it's that psilocybin carries you to a place where it is possible given several other things which seem to be necessary so psilocybin is necessary but not sufficient for this phenomenon what else is required is a thing which is sort of hard to describe but it's an attitude of expectation it's an attitude of being on the verge of communication even though nobody else is present in other words you have to invoke it and that word strangely enough has a history related to demonic summoning and that sort of thing but that's what you do you invoke it you feel the load of the psilocybin and you say aha it's enough now and then you test a real you try it and you do this by consciously speaking gibberish in other words what seems to be happening is that you have to release your brain's expectation that sound will have meaning because when we all speak we always the words have a meaning attached to them or else there's something wrong with you but if you will speak gibberish for a moment just for a moment it's like priming the pump and the break then is made with whatever connects language to meaning and language begins it begins to flower and to take off and to develop these abstract modalities that are free of association but that are obviously highly ordered and grammatical and going through complicated it's like a sonata and in fact it's led me to suggest that probably language existed thousands and thousands of years before meaning that this is what monkeys these evolving monkeys on the brink of self-reflection did for each other as a form of entertainment it's not as much of an energy drain as chanting and singing it's you just carry it on at a conversational level but you you know it's word music that can very very fine nuances of the stuff it's manipulating which is not meaning but whatever it is this topological manifold very fine nuances can be imparted to it by these small mouth noises and it sounds like a language that you just don't understand there's all this inflection and it sounds very intelligent if you could just catch it it's like that it's like that only more so like one of the things that seems to be going on is there seems to be more phonemes than are actually in any human language I mean isn't it that there are 52 phonemes and no language known as more than 41 or something like that but it because if you do this for a while and it's so much fun it's a kind of ecstasy to do it that there's no reason to stop if you're alone after you've done it for an hour or so your face your mouth is just hanging down to your waist I mean it's like you've just done something to the whole front of your head and all the musculature has dissolved because you've been making all these sounds that you never make and the whole front of your face feels different so every language has a set of coded mouth positions which are expected and easily facilitated through use no there's rarely somebody there to hear it when I do I sometimes wish oh I don't know I mean for instance I'm very shy about it I feel like it's a very personal thing to do so that I it's hard for me to do it in the presence of other people but this is just perhaps my personality or my association well here's what I think it is it's and Henry Munn made this point in his in his article and I said earlier you know that what we need is the evolution of language and it's all about the evolution of language yes it's a very it's a continuum and as I I guess it was here somewhere recently I said you know it begins as clear thought it moves into eloquence it then becomes charismatic at that point if it goes any further it will be called demonic possession because it's too it's happening too much you're not supposed to be that compelling you're not supposed to be that powerful a speaker and if you stick with it past demonic possession it becomes the it becomes these objects it actually crosses over and becomes the topological modality that that I mentioned Jill and I were talking in the baths the other night because she made her sounds down there and I caught it at a certain angle visually and I could see these things coming out of her mouth which looked like blue smoke and I've seen this before it looks like heat waves off a highway and perhaps it's nothing more than heated air that's been in the lungs heated by the body has a different refractive index than the exterior air it's probably expelled in a series of waves and so if you have the light just right what you see is a is a displacement of light flickering in the vicinity of the mouth but I think I've also in a stone state watch that condense into this more visible language and it's as though you know there are finer and finer levels of vibration the whole notion of the word becoming flesh which occurs in cosmogonic myths as diverse as the Judeo-Christian and the Australian Aborigine it's always about a word a word was uttered and this word was somehow more than a word it adumbrated through dimensions and caused the phenomenon of being and this is the sort of thing that's happening but to answer your question yes I think that I have verbal facility because I've taken so much of this drug and maybe I had a tendency toward it at the beginning being Irish and not given to hard work but nevertheless it definitely does this and it does it temporarily like when you take psilocybin if you actually try to do what we call raving which is you know a high-speed soliloquy but the raving can just go anywhere and is if it's true that what we are are creatures of information then this is very interesting that it synergizes this ability everything that we are doing is informational deployment I mean we take in raw materials and we excrete manufactured objects which are essentially ideas we take in air and we expel words everything we do is about stamping higher orders of information on unorganized lower forms of raw material and it's it's moving out of us moving out of our bodies this technical engine that we have created of computers and scientific institutions and rapacious government agencies and commercial concerns it has a life of its own it's defining what humanity will be for itself it's a war about language about you know Joseph Goebbels was the great 20th century thinker who understood this more clearly than anyone else and set the tone set the rules of the game so that the deconditioning effect of the drugs the introduction to alien modalities the glossolalia the accessing of the vision state all of these things have to do with information and the life of its own that it is taking on and we are like the privileged of
 observers of this it's as though well, no less a psychedelic voyager researcher and bon vivant than William Burroughs said English is a virus from outer space And that's what I've been trying to say and now I'm finished

Terence McKenna - Toward The End Of History - Interview - 10th July 1996

Welcome to the show, A Better World. This is your host Mitchell J. Raven, and we're very glad that you're joining us again today. Today we are again, if I may say so, going to have a very interesting show. Today we have Terrence McKenna on with us, and we're very pleased, since Terrence is here in New York, he decided to come and join us here at the studio. Terrence is here going to be talking at St. John the Divine and at Source of Life Center doing a weekend, this weekend, and you'll be seeing this show actually after the weekend. So if you get a taste of Terrence's antics and wild thinking, you will be able to find out when Terrence will be back in town for the next round. So welcome, Terrence. It's a pleasure to be here. Great. Good to have you. Absolutely. God, there's so much that we can really embark upon to talk about, because Terrence has been so interesting in this world, because he's bringing such a rich array of different kinds of thoughts and fantasies to the fore. And so, what I would like to talk about first is, if you would bring us up to speed on one of the main focuses of your work, which has been the software program dealing with time and novelty. You've spun out this entire idea of a theory of novelty, as you describe it, and maybe you can talk a little bit about that. Well, the software is now available in a DOS version and in a very advanced Mac version. The raison d'etre for this present speaking tour is we're in what's called a novelty plunge according to the theory. In other words, a very concentrated period of time in which a lot is predicted to happen. And since these predictions are the only way we have of testing novelty theory, it's very interesting when there is a prediction of a very deep plunge in novelty, because then you get to actually measure the incoming data from the real world, so-called, against theory. So we are now in a deep novel plunge? Yes, we're in a novelty plunge which began around the end of February and which will reach its maxima the middle of next week and then sustain itself through the summer. So it's not simply a plunge into novelty, but a plunge into novelty followed by a period of very intense exploration of that deep state of novelty. Perhaps it's only fair, Terence, to let the audience know from the outset that one of the main places of focus that you've been involved in in the past 20 years or so has been in dealing with shamanically sanctioned plants and bringing the wisdom of the plant world, you could say, to the foreground of our society. Yes, I've been very interested in hallucinogenic experience and shamanism and that sort of thing since the 60s, and what it has to do with time is, I think if you spend enough time looking at these things, you come to see that the shamanic metaphor, the magical metaphor are not as fully satisfying as thinking about these things in terms of dimensionality, but actually you do go into another dimension, not in the metaphorical sense, but in a sense that a mathematician would understand. It's a... Would you say a literal sense? A literal sense, yeah. Now many people who are very interested in dimensionality have been using all sorts of different ways, have been attracted to anywhere from the use of flotation tanks to all sorts of different kinds of tantric meditations from the Buddhists, from the Sufis, from the Kabbalists and elsewhere. Now maybe it would be interesting to hear your point of view on these, which are really post-shamanic religious kinds of disciplines. And you have some points of view on it that would be nice to hear out here. Well, I mean the most practical point of view is whatever works for you, you should use. If we then try to generalize to what works for most people, it seems to me the use of plant hallucinogens is particularly effective simply because it transcends ideology, it transcends ritual, it goes directly to the physical brain, and by perturbing the living brain, it perturbs consciousness. And then out of that experience, conclusions are drawn within a cultural framework. And so an aboriginal rainforest shaman may get one reading on that, and someone with training in quantum physics or something like that may reach a different conclusion. But the important thing of all these techniques, whether pharmacological or you mentioned tantra, is to perturb consciousness into insight about itself by some means. And it's very tricky because consciousness is like a very heavy fluid. It always seems to seek the gravity of the familiar. Right. So in a sense, what we're always struggling with or against is the tendency toward habituation. And one of the places we see that, of course, is mainly mental habituation. We think along the same lines, we think in the same linguistic patterns. Well, an interesting thing about people is our tendency to habituate and addict to not only drugs and foods, but behavior patterns, ideologies, routines. The founder of general systems theory, Ludwig von Bertalanffy, said once an amusing thing. He said, I would hope, people are not machines, but in every situation in which they're given the chance to behave like machines, they will do so. God, I think we have a society that proves that. The beehive mentality Robert Anton Wilson refers to. The problem is the power of media to co-opt people's ordinary impulses and to channel them along corporate or consumerist channels that are useful then not so much to the individual, but to the organization that's doing the manipulating. Absolutely. And that is no doubt one of the main reasons there has been such legislation on all levels, social as well as legal, about such things as hallucinogenic plants. Because, in fact, I think your life is very much testimony to that. When people ingest certain kinds of hallucinogens, the last thing they're thinking about is authority, consumerism, or legality for that matter. Well, it isn't even so much that it neutralizes the consumerist impulses. It actually dissolves and erodes them because it sort of shows the relativity of all existence. Consumerism is based on a strong reinforcement of ego, and ego is so easily relativized by the psychedelic experience that in some sense then the psychedelic experience is the enemy of the consumer society. And this makes for political dynamite, or at least interesting political rhetoric. At least. Well, one of the things that really does happen with the psychedelic experience, as well as through such kind of simpler matters as contemplation or meditation, is people start to become cognizant of their lives, of their bodies, of the world around them, and the values that they're, in a sense, being asked to embrace through standard practices in the society. These no longer look very tasteful, I think, is one of the things that happens. Yeah, I think you could make a simple model of the psychedelic experience and say that what really happens is that you develop attention to attention. There's a pulling back. There's a second level of attention. And when you have that point of view, you are, to some degree, alienated because you're more aware of the ambiguity.
 Ambiguity that haunts every situation but on the other hand you are more conscious You're picking up on more of what the information that's actually being passed in the situation Yeah, yeah Well, I think you know, I want everyone to know that Terence McKenna has written a number of books one of which is I happen to have with me called the archaic revival and There are numbers of others True hallucinations is the last true hallucinations Invisible landscape invisible landscape food of the gods of the gods I did one with the British biologist Rupert Sheldrake and Ralph Abraham Trilogues at the edge of the West. Mm-hmm. It's a threefer you get not only me but two other pretty interesting. Yeah Uh-huh. Uh-huh. What were those explorations like in that book? We would have a dialogue and then the third person would critique the dialogue and these dialogues We're on subjects like quantum physics chaos theory psychedelics the millennium the soul Just sort of things we thought were in the air that people might be interested in. Mm-hmm Mm-hmm, I you know, I wish maybe you would tell that story about how you came across the whole idea of novelty and what brought you eventually to the Looking at the aging and the 64 hexagrams. I just love that. Well, they story it's very revealing the story You mean the entire story of my life my life the invisible Story Just pick it up at Berkeley. Basically. We were poking around in the Amazon jungle looking at Hallucinogenic plants in the early 70s and had a series of very intense Experiences, which this was you and your brother. Yes, which resolved themselves down to a kind of mathematical Obsession with the structure of the Qing for People watching. I don't know what the each thing is. It's a very old system of Chinese divination system for predicting the future and the thing about it that's so astonishing is many very skeptical people have come to the conclusion that it somehow works and the question that we were asking was How does it work how could such a thing work rather than just treating it as a mystical revelation Well, it would have been asking that one for ages to including the Chinese to have a system which allows you to predict the future you would have to understand what time is and so by grappling with this problem in the Qing I came to have a Notion of what time is or at least a theory I was willing to put out for argument And that's what the software you mentioned earlier was all about what it comes down to is the mathematics produces a Graph not that different from a stock market graph It has it rises and it falls but it's not a graph of stock movement It's a graph of this quality of reality called novelty which is Slippery to define but I think intuitively pretty easy to grasp and novelty Comes and goes it haunts time like a ghost Sometimes there are long stretches where it is absent. It's it's opposite is habit so you can think of reality as a kind of Push pull a struggle between habit and novelty and The good news from my point of view is that novelty is slowly winning There is the History of the universe or of the 20th century or of the past six weeks is a history of steadily Accumulating novelty and it's what makes human society possible electronic culture possible a city like New York, these are obviously Manifestations of novelty that have taken a very long time to accumulate to come into being. I mean Manhattan 500 years ago was wooded Rocky Island So clearly novelty has come to rest here and we see what it is rot Well in a sense the entire planet is in the grip of this developing Efflorescence of novelty and But it isn't something which develops smoothly, you know 1% more per day or something like that. It is like like fits and starts exactly fits and starts ebb and flow but tending always toward greater novelty Eventually and I think you know We're reaching the place with it now where the speed at which the novelty is Ingressing is so great that people can feel it in their own lives It's not an abstraction people feel something akin to psychic weather Mm-hmm, and it comes in and novelty is Frozen for a few weeks and then the front breaks up and novelty you have all more than you can handle so there must be this intimate relationship really between Your description of novelty and our perception Yes, in a sense I'm asking people to observe something within their own inner dynamic That was always there But that they really had no vocabulary for I mean one one vocabulary that somewhat speaks to this is The concept of Dow. I mean if you know anything about Dow It's an idea that there is an invisible force that permeates the world and it builds things up Dynasties love affairs corporations and it tears them down according to very mysterious dynamics of its own Well, that's precisely what we're talking about The only thing I've tried to do is to replace mysticism with mathematics and say There is this force But it can be known it can be charted in the way that we can predict the weather or predict bond prices so So novelty the theory actually has some very practical uses of that case Yes, because what it would tell you if it were widely accepted is it would tell you where to expect unusual events and Where you would be wasting your time to look for unusual events. It doesn't tell you what? will happen because that is Indetermined I believe but that there is a kind of landscape over which events flow Sometimes faster sometimes slower like water over a terrain. I think that experience Makes that seem fairly reasonable. Yeah, you know, you're just reminding me of a weekend I spent with you a couple of years ago at the Open Center when you said something about the nature of science and how We are all we've been in a sense Scientifically programmed to value science on a belief system level you would say to think that it is really the be-all-end-all But you've made a very important point that's always really stuck with me Which is that there's one domain that science does not control for but act as acts as though it controls for and that's time That time you said had a topography that it had a shape to it and that an experiment That is conducted on a Monday will not necessarily yield the same results on Thursday afternoon Yes, well you put your finger on a complex epistemological issue Science as we know it Uses probability theory as the fundamental mathematical tool and how that works is you gather data? You put all the data together you add it together and then you average it well this act of averaging Has not been philosophically fully explored in terms of what its implications are when you average a bunch of Measurements, let's say you smear out their individuality and so behind the use of averaging and probability theory is the implicit Assumption that it doesn't matter when the measurement was taken in other words the in science They say time is not a dependent dependent variable. It's invariant, but that's just a Guess yeah, we don't know that it's invariant in our own experience No, love affair ever happens the same. No flu is quite like any other no Dinner is quite like any other our human world is filled with the unique Feltness felt presence of unique experience, but science gives us a world always based on these probabilistic generalities, which I think do
 great damage to the subtle, fine structure of experience. Well, if we just look at a lunar cycle, and we see that every single day is actually qualitatively and quantitatively different, that one day is never going to be the same, by definition, as another day. Well, you could almost say, I suppose, that the scientist seeks what is similar between any two days, or bluebirds, or glaciers, and the poet seeks what is different. The artist seeks to celebrate the unique, and so they really represent two ends of a kind of spectra. Sure, sure. I mean, each has its own value. This isn't to negate the value of science, but in a sense... But science needs to undergo some pretty serious self-critiquing, because over the past 300 years or so, what has happened in science is, by concentrating on picking things apart, the idea of spirit, or a vital, unifying intellect, or a force, that all has been completely discredited by science, and it leaves you then with no basis for any ethic or anything. I mean, basically, people and animals are machines in this view, and if you believe that, you start treating them like machines, and you start putting machine-like politics in place, and it becomes nightmarish fairly quickly. So, and it's all right. I think science is coming along... Slowly, but surely. Well, it's a natural tendency of human beings to hit the easy problems first, and the easy problems are things like what's going on when a ball bearing rolls downhill, and what is water made out of, and the tricky problems are... That one we haven't actually answered fully yet. Well, no, but the really tricky problems are questions like, what is memory? What is language? What is existence? Yeah, and so these questions are eventually going to be... What is a magic mushroom? What is a magic mushroom? You have to answer that now. Well, basically, any mushroom with psilocybin in it is pretty magical. Well, you've described magic mushrooms as language. They synergize, they catalyze language. They probably, as a footnote to the fact that they catalyze the imagination, they catalyze cognitive process. We don't know what that exactly means, but you don't have to be a rocket scientist to see that cognitive process is definitely the name of the human game. So anything which catalyzes art, poetry, literature, mathematics, politics, music, has major implications for the human enterprise. Of course, it's illegal, it's stigmatized, but these are simply local peculiarities of the folk. Yeah, right, right. It has nothing to do with the great longevity of time. Or the real meaning and implication of these things. I'm sure whatever work they do, they do it whether they're scheduled or not. Yeah, right, exactly, exactly. They're not going to be limited by local customs of the United States or European governments at this little point in time, which is but a blip on the screen. In fact, that's actually one of your great gifts to us all, Terrence, which is to, for me, I really feel myself expand when I listen to you speak, because I give up all local notions of time. And it goes far beyond, in each direction, by the way. Not just two, actually, it probably goes more than that. Not only when will it end, but when did we get here? Yeah, really, really. You also talk about this transcendental object at the end of time. Well, in an effort to understand novelty, where it's leading, you have to, if you extrapolate the notion, you have to realize it must lead to the most novel thing there is, that which there cannot be greater novelty than. So that's the transcendental object at the end of time. It's the light at the end of the tunnel, a kind of a tractor of some sort. So when you speculate according to the software, well, not according to the software, I mean according to the novelty theory and what you have extrapolated from your studies of Li Jing and etc., you have selected a date in time at which you postulate will be the end of history. And I always say subtext as we know it. Right. Could you say a word? They're saying that we're out of time. Is that possible? We are, if not out of time now, soon to be out of time. It's a very bizarre notion, isn't it? I won't accept it. It's like the end of the novel or the end of history. What does it mean? Well, it just means life becomes so complicated that a new dimension is added and then therefore it makes no sense to call it history. The way literacy and writing added a new dimension. So what is there, do you think, going to be a particular event or it's going to be some kind of quantum psychological leap or a shift? I think it's a knitting together of all these exotic technologies and human beings that are presently in the world, that cultural boundaries, national boundaries, gender boundaries are all dissolving. And the consequence of that is literally inconceivable to people embedded in history. I mean, those of us who try to keep track of all these things are not able to keep track. And the people embedded in the process is just trying to earn a job and have a career are largely clueless as to the nature of the way in which things are crystallizing. Try talking. Like what? Well, like what? All kinds of things are happening. Let's just take the last three months. The human genome has been sequenced. Extraterrestrial planets have been discovered around alien suns. They have been discovered? They've discovered. 70 Virginas has two Jupiter-mass planets around it. 47 Ursa Majoris has two half-Jupiter-mass planets in orbit around it. Was this written up in something other than the National Enquirer? Oh, no. You're not reading Science News, Scientific American. Yeah, I missed the last issues. Well, see, that's what I'm saying. The people who are embedded in trying to have a life... What are you saying? ...are not... Let's see, what else? But they found alien... I mean, what they're referring to as extraterrestrial... ...planets around... ...planetary systems? Yes, there are now about six stars within 40 light-years of Earth known to have some kind of object around them. And this has all happened just in the last three months. How novel. Anti-matter was created. A few hundred atoms of anti-helium was created at CERN in Switzerland about three months ago. Anti-matter converts to energy 100% in the presence of ordinary matter. It's an ultimate kind of energy source. Yeah. Let's see, one other thing. Oh, analysis of this asteroid impact in Canada leads to the conclusion that a huge amount of organic material was delivered to Earth in that impact and wasn't destroyed by heat. So, they've established that extraterrestrial biology is arriving on Earth. They've sequenced the human genome. They've discovered planets around alien stars. They've had great success in nanotechnology in the past. This is all in the past 90 days we're talking about. So, these kinds of things extrapolated 10 years into the future along with stuff like the internet and pharmacology and teledildonics and all this other stuff. Teledildonics? Don't ask. Can we even look it up in the dictionary? After the show, all lead to the conclusion that we are transcending ourselves faster than we realize. We are becoming unrecognizable. The transformation is not going to happen. The transition is underway. It's underway. Yeah. This is phenomenal. The transcendent object is approaching quickly. It's emerging. Well, to take one example fairly close to home to most people, the internet. I mean, the internet is...
 the most powerful and advanced technology ever put in place. It's arisen virtually in the last five years. The world doesn't look substantially different. I mean, we didn't have to make highways or any of the things that other technologies have demanded. And yet, really the nation state is now obsolete. So probably is the office as we know it. Corporations and nations haven't yet realized that when they begin to understand how much money they can save through telecommuting and this sort of thing, the whole raison d'etre for clustering into enormous cities may just disappear. The other thing is, you know, the internet is in a tremendous force for empowering the margins. All sexual minorities, all political minorities, all artistic minorities now can build very powerful communities on the internet and push their vision, whatever it is, forward. So traditionally, power to communicate and to control communication has been one of the most closely held prerogatives of the powerful. And now it's just, it's been given unto our hands. So I find that very exciting. I think that I haven't felt this kind of excitement with a new technology since the introduction of LSD. And there are similarities, to be sure. Such as? Well, both empower community. And the internet was largely created by people who were very much formed by that earlier revolution. I mean, the people who write VRML, the people who are putting Netscape and the new search engines and all this stuff out are freaks. I don't think they would balk at that label at all. They're people who love working in these areas because they represent the same kind of feeling of unlimited possibility that the psychedelic community had in the 60s. Yeah, yeah. You know, I'm just wondering about the internet. I've just been thinking about it and just getting involved in it myself. And would like to hear what you have to say about this because the powerful have always, as you said, held a very close hand over media. And that's one of the ways they maintain their, even if somewhat false, power. They still have that position. Is there a way of propagandizing the internet where a couple of powerful, or of the powerful, power-possessing beings, as they're referred to, can usurp the general community feeling or community access? I don't really think so. I mean, I think that the internet is so fundamentally a different beast, and here's the distinction that I would make. For at least 200, maybe 300 years, Western civilization has been largely shaped by what is called mass media, means first of all newspapers and then all the electronic mass media. The nature of mass media is what's called one-to-many communication, where a letterman or somebody speaks and millions listen and emulate. The internet is what's called any-to-any communication. You and I can have an email exchange, or I can send email to 1,000 people, or I can join a chat group of several hundred. And I think the changes are more profound than we can even imagine because the mass media created two things which we cannot imagine living without, the idea of the public and the idea of the citizen. Now we hear a great deal about how society is dissolving into anarchy. What it means is there is no more public consensus, and that is because the post-electronic media personality isn't interested in following fads dictated from above in quite the same way. So instead what we have is an incredibly heterogeneous and complex society that's all niches. There's no public anymore. There's just niches. The Latino niche, the lesbian niche, the this niche, the that niche. And there is no cohesion anymore. While some people think this is a terrible thing, I happen to think it's a very good thing because I think it makes us much more difficult to coerce and to control. So the ending of the age of mass media is something that the world corporate state has not really braced itself for because it has so much money invested in these now dinosaur forms of media. So I think of the internet really as a 60 million television channel, a 60 million channel TV. Sure. And naturally that creates, and it's a two-way deal. Yeah, right, it's interactive. I think the only way to deal with media and keep your wits about you is to produce it. Produce it, not consume it. To wit. God forbid, do not consume it. And then do not flee it. That doesn't work either. The people say, well, I never, I don't. Well, they're just, yeah, they're no-nothing-ism, even more easily manipulated. The key is to produce. And things like Photoshop and Macromind Director, and I don't work for any of these people, but I use their products, are incredibly empowering. What used to require $50,000 worth of production equipment can now be done with three, and the cost is falling. That's gotta be good for the spreading of countercultural and minority viewpoints and opinions. Sure, that's a very, very good point. In fact, I was thinking about the internet in this respect a little bit very recently, and I was realizing it's, in many ways, it's, another way of putting it is it's a great equalizer. From a socioeconomic point of view, people who would never have anything to do with each other, necessarily, would never cross paths, are being given an opportunity to meet via the net. And it's safe. Yeah. Yeah, it's safe. Yes, it creates a community. People in absolutely distinct economic strata can come together. Well, and no matter how minority your position, no matter how bizarre your interest, you can find a community of people on the internet, absolutely. Who share your views. Who share your views, and who are furiously advancing that agenda. Yeah. The other thing is, what the internet was designed for was research. And if you believe that information is power, then the information gathering research tool that has been given to the ordinary person to actually find out what the hell is really going on. I feel with my internet connection, I have better intelligence than Stansfield Turner had when he ran the CIA for Jimmy Carter. That's how fast these technologies, it's gone from what only the CIA director could have, that now sits on the desktop of millions of American homes. Sure. And what's that? 12 years or something like that. So there's an incredible dispersion of information. And acceleration of connectivity. Everybody's getting connected the way they wish. And of course, some of it is perverse and some of it is silly and trivial. We had silly and perverse and trivial long before we had the internet. Right. It didn't just all of a sudden arise. Because people had a little desktop publishing computer on their desk. Right. Absolutely. Talking about being connected, there's something that's always puzzled me, and maybe you can speak to this, which is you've spoken about a time before history when men and women did something very novel, got along. And do you remember that time? Oh yeah. You want me to run that riff? Okay, would you? It's sort of a... But I have a question that's embedded in that, which, why don't you do the riff and then I'll ask the question? The riff has to do with the, I've done a lot of thinking about early human evolution and how did we make the leap so suddenly from an advanced monkey to a poetry, spouting, dreaming thing we are. Right.
 The hidden factor I think is chemical acceleration agents in the environment Specifically psilocybin and other things. I mean, I'm giving you the Lightspeed solution exactly, but what I said about the relationship between men and women is I? Think that psilocybin dissolves Ego and that the ordinary dominance Hierarchies in primates which are male dominance hierarchies Dissolved for about a hundred thousand years in human beings because of an item in the diet Essentially they were self-medicating themselves into a slightly different relationship to their psychosexuality and instead of a ego enforced male hegemony Expressing itself as monogamy There was a some kind of polygamous Orgiastic more egalitarian kind of organization the reasons for thinking these kinds of things when looking at primates is we have bonobos which are a kind of chimpanzee and chimpanzees Genetically, they're 98% Similar but their sexual Behaviors could hardly be more different one is very male dominant and a lot of aggression and anxiety about female Behavior the bonobos on the other hand are extremely loose Many kinds of sexual activity are tolerated and so forth and so on so it looks like in human beings Though are how we express ourselves sexually is hugely important to us. It is not very tightly bound in To genetics. It's more like a cultural choice. You're free to be monogamous polygamous heterosexual homosexual the bisexual Asexual this is not usually the case in an animal species and I think this flexibility about our sexual expression was an effect of the Different relationship to libido that experimenting with hallucinogenic plants in the paleolithic period Induced and this is it's a fun idea to play with it sort of explains our nostalgia for goddess the time of goddess worship orgy nomadism all children and whatever Minimal property there was held in common. It's a kind of ecstasy anarchy ecstasy Freedom. Yeah, and it may be a myth or it may in fact be a memory of a time And then of course once the mushroom Paradisal beginnings once the mushroom is taken out of the picture those old bad habits Male dominance and so forth returned with a family sort of yeah, and that's the point in history where you get History walled cities standing armies kingship slavery Enforced role models subjugation of women right the whole bit So our goal structure in a sense. I think the Western phobia about drugs about hallucinogens about these Experiences has to do with the fact that the ego is very Uncertain of its role. It's it's not strong It's fragile it's full of fear and paranoia that it could easily be unseated and of course take five grams of psilocybin and silent darkness Ego will be unseated We would like to say once and for all but it doesn't seem to go quite that way But okay, well, thank you for that riff I appreciate it The question is what has what I've wondered about in listening to you over the years and they've been wonderful years I'll have you know In fact, we met originally in 1988. I was at a Seminar on the subject of physical immortality where Terence was giving a talk We were just reminiscing about that just before what was that famous line you had for you're immortal as long as you live What is the role and especially since you have Gotten so very involved in the yi jing which which touches so many precious elements of human life what is the role of character and you could say character development in the The shamanic and the psychedelic experience Well, it's an interesting question I think sort of we touched on this a little bit earlier in our talk where I talked about developing the observer of Attention that there is a developing of a sense of cybernetic position actually Well in a sense of proper relationship, I mean a shaman is neither inflated nor deflated neither excessively humble nor excessively pretentious and Humor if if someone claims to be some kind of shaman and they do not take themselves Lightly, then they're probably some beetle-browed maniac of some sort going for your wallet or worse So You know a sense of relative proportion and humor and a sense of Not the inevitability but sort of the just the power in things to unfold themselves along their own pathways I've met a lot of shamans because I spent time in the Amazon Basin and invariably the the Signifying characteristic is simply a feeling of being at ease in their presence and a feeling of Penetrating intelligence it isn't that different from talking about Tibetan lamas or anyone like that. I mean penetrating intelligence Some people differ with me, but I really believe Salvation has something to do with intelligence You know, it may not be the whole story. It's not just a passing acquaintance. Well, I was quoting I don't know if I can get this right, but I was quoting last night. John Stuart Mill to a friend of mine John Stuart Mill said Not all conservative people are stupid, but most stupid people are a conservative Amazing I Hear what you're saying you so in terms of character development One of the main things that you were focusing on is humor Which actually preempted one of my other questions when I told you I was sitting down and doing something very novel I'll have you know, which was thinking of questions that I would like to ask Terrence one of the questions was What is the role of humor in well not the psychedelic experience? I think that's kind of obvious but with in the shamanic experience with that that purview on life, which is pre-religious so to speak institutional religious What is the flavor of the life? when people are so close to the earth and the plants and is that something that you are inviting people to consider these days in 1996 now as a Way for us to open up toward the transcendental object Well, I'm not sure I follow the entire question, but I'll try a yes. Oh, yeah All right. You want me to rephrase it or do you want to just let me let me take a stab at it Two human activities seem to me pretty much to be outside of history I mean one is orgasm and the other is laughter and they are Physiological responses to circumstance that are universal we do it no differently if we're French or Armenian or whatever and It breaks us out of culture for a moment. And so laughter I think is really the shamans greatest tool that's why the shaman is always associated with the trickster and In the clinches meaning when somebody's dying or a childbirth or snakebite or something The shaman is a very serious and highly functional caregiver and technician right but how the shaman lives with his people is as a Clown and a gadfly and a critic and the guy who always says well Don't you think we should think again or how about this or how about that? and I Think it's a playful spirit. It's a playful spirit and it's a spirit that isn't dogmatic and that's really important Every these cultures are hideously dogmatic But the shaman is the one person in the culture who is deputized to make fun of it. And so I see ourselves as Bohemians
 as freaks, as natural critics of the society we live in, as, in that sense, performing a shamanic function. Right. Okay, good. That answers the many-pronged question that that was. And actually, to go a step further with that, I remember reading something that you were writing about transpersonally-oriented psychotherapists and the role that you see them playing in today's society as really being very instrumental. Well, now there are, I don't know, thousands, probably, people who I would consider shamans, who don't live in the rainforest and don't administer their skills to some tiny language group up some river, but who are fully embedded citizens of high electronic culture. And this is a new shamanism that is coming into being. We need it. Psychotherapy has been very reluctant to get its feet wet, you know, the talking therapies and then finally the touching therapies, but very little of the taking it and going with the patient into the space kinds of therapies, because that is incredibly dangerous and demanding work. But it's what people must do if they want to work their way out of the modern dilemma. And do you think that through ingestion, still at this point, this can help us? I mean, it doesn't mean that it has to be for everyone all the time. No, definitely it's not for everyone, but it's an enormous boon to our culture to revivify these shamanic hallucinogens and to bring them into the developing mix of technology and pluralism and new therapies and so forth and so on. I think it's one of the most important tools. I mean, as you well know, there is just simply nothing that effective and that dramatic for pushing you into a new world, whether you like it or not. Sure. And that's where we're going, whether we like it or not. That's true, too. Yeah. And from that point of view, you know, you use the word and make reference to the idea of evolution. And the more I think about it, the more I think that that's a very overused and underdefined term. I'm not even sure anymore what it really is. Well, evolution in biological terms is not in the picture anymore. We are evolving now entirely in the domain of culture and so rapidly. Culture and consciousness. Well, yes, they mirror each other. One is the byproduct of the other. But we're not changing physically. We haven't for 50,000 years. We still have the appendix, et cetera. Yes. But we are mutating our cultural values and our technologies and our institutions at such a rate that, as I say, we will not recognize ourselves in a very few years. And, of course, that's not a biological recognition. It's a psychic recognition. Yes. I mean, imagine someone brought forward to modern New York from 100 years ago. I mean, I'm sure they would assume that... I don't know what they would assume had happened in the intervening 100 years. It looks like Armageddon or something. Sure. But it's not. It's just normal unfolding of historical processes and technology. The mushroom once said to me, this is what it's like when a species prepares to depart for the stars. Not to worry. Well, they've been speaking to you for a while, haven't they? Long enough. Long enough. We are being signaled that we are... The end of time is really not in 2012, December 23rd or something like that. It's really in about four minutes. See, it overtook even my expectations. Much faster than either of us could have realized. In our closing minutes, are there any particular points that you would like to make? I mean, here we have this wonderful New York audience that is just loving you and lapping up this show. And I'm just wondering if there's any particular central points that you would like to make, that you would like to communicate to the folks that are listening. I think people should put the art pedal to the floor. I think our salvation is in producing as much beauty and as much communication as fast as possible. That what will make this white knuckle ride to the end of history slightly easier is if we communicate our dreams, our fears, our experience of what it's like to go through this. We've never been here before. This is a unique moment. And probably the future of the human race depends on how we comport ourselves over the next 25 years. So it's a privilege, a challenge, an adventure. Everybody should jump in and feel the surf. Take off your seatbelt and get ready. That's right. Absolutely. Well, that's wonderful. In fact, I just realized on a practical note that you are beginning this think-along tour in New York. That's right. As we speak. Well, this is the most novel place. Really? This is the place to begin? And from here you're going to Santa Fe? Santa Fe, then Boulder, then Los Angeles, and then home to Hawaii. Wonderful, wonderful. A great place to have a home in, as a matter of fact. Why don't we give a way for people to get in touch with Axiom? So if they want to communicate to friends in other parts of the country while you're dancing around. Do you have the Axiom email address? Do I have it? Their phone number is 1-800-76-AXIOM. Oh, well, that'll do it. Okay, 1-800-76-AXIOM. And there's Robin Johnson there, so you can feel free to call to get more information on Terrence's think-along tours as he dances across the country. We're really glad that you danced into the studio. It was a pleasure to talk with you. Great. Lots of fun. Take it easy. Absolutely, I will, Terrence. Thanks so much. This is Mitchell J. Rabin for A Better World. Thanks again for joining us. My number is 212-420-0800. Please call and give a couple of suggestions. Please, everybody, now when I need you. And share your thoughts, feelings with me. Love to hear from you. The number again is 212-420-0800. And I look forward to seeing you next week. .

Terence McKenna - Towards The Unknown - Interview - 10 June 1983

The human imagination, in conjunction with technology, has become a force so potent that it really can no longer be unleashed on the surface of the planet with safety. The human imagination has gained such an immense power that the only environment that is friendly to it is actually the vacuum of deep space. It is there that we can erect the architectonic dreams that drive us to produce a Los Angeles or a Tokyo and do it on a scale and in such a way that it will be fulfilling rather than degrading. So yes, I think we cannot move forward in understanding without accepting as a consequence of that that we have to leave the planet, that we are no longer the bipedal monkeys we once were. We have become almost a new force in nature, a thing of language and cybernetics and an amalgam of computers and human brains and societal structures that has such an enormous forward momentum that the only place where it can express itself without destroying itself is, as James Joyce says, up in the end. So long, long ago in the faraway galaxy, Star Wars style may be in our future? Well... As opposed to our past? It's in our present, I think. Our future is probably almost unimaginable because I think the transformation that leaving the planet will bring will also involve a transformation of our consciousness. We are not going as 1950 style human beings. We are going to have to transform our minds before we are going to be able to leave the planet with any amount of grace. This is where I think the psychedelics come in because they are anticipations of the future. They seem to channel information that is not strictly governed by the laws of normal causality so that there really is a prophetic dimension, a glimpse of the potential of the far centuries of the future through these compounds. And no cultural shift of this magnitude can be unambiguous. I mean, the very idea that as a species we would leave the earth behind us must be as rending an idea as that a child would leave its childhood home, obviously. It's a turning away from something that once left behind can never be recaptured. However, this is the nature of going forward into being, a series of self-transforming, a sense of level. And we now simply happen to be at that moment of ascent to a new level that is linked to leaving the planetary surface physically and to reconnecting with the contents of the unconscious collectivity of our minds. These two things will be done simultaneously. This is what the last half of the 20th century, it seems to me, is all about. Well, by and large, psychedelics have really not been accepted into the mainstream. Do you see a change in that? Well, not particularly. They hold a certain fascination for a persistent majority, and in that way they do their catalytic work upon society, which is to introduce new ideas and to release a certain kind of creative energy into society. I certainly would not like to see a return to the psychedelic hysterias of the 1960s. I think it's fine that these things are now the subject of interest of a much smaller group of people, but perhaps a group of people with a greater commitment and a better idea of exactly what these things are. And it's really the same people, it's just a smaller group of them, and they have accumulated experience over the past 20 years. However, I certainly don't think all psychedelic frontiers are conquered. One of the things that I write about and speak about are the phenomena that many people confirm with the psilocybin family of hallucinogens that no one has included in the standard model of psychedelic drugs, and by that I refer to the Logos-like phenomenon of an interiorized voice that seems to be almost a superhuman agency, a kind of genus loci. And I've been writing recently about alien intelligence, which is what I call this, where you have contact with an entity so beyond the normal structure of the ego that if it is not an extraterrestrial, it might as well be, because its bizarreness and its distance from ordinary expectations about what can go on is so great that if flying saucers arrived here tomorrow from the Pleiades, it would make this mystery no less compelling, because I believe that the place to search for extraterrestrials is in the psychic dimension, and there the problem is not the absence of contact, but the volume of contact that must be sifted through, because the fact of the matter is shaman and mystics and seers have been hearing voices and talking to gods and demons since the Paleolithic and probably before. That doesn't mean that we can rule out this approach to communication. It seems to me far more likely that an advanced civilization would communicate interdimensionally and telepathically. The amounts of time available for an intelligent species to evolve these kinds of communication are vast, so I think that it's very interesting then that the tryptamines, psilocybin and DMT, at the 15 milligram level, very reliably trigger what could only be described as contact-like phenomena, and not only the interiorized voice in the head, but also the classical flying saucer motifs of the whirling disk, the lens-shaped object, the alien approach. This seems to be something hardwired into the human psyche, and I would like to find out why. I think it's a very odd fact of human psychology, and I don't buy any of the current theories ranging from that nothing at all is happening, to that this is in fact another species with a world around another star that is getting in touch with us. I think it's something so bizarre that it actually masquerades as an extraterrestrial so as not to alarm us by the true implications of what it is. But I suspect it is something like an overmind of the species, that actually the highest form of human organization is not realized in the democratic individual. It is realized in a dimension none of us have ever penetrated, which is the mind of the species, which is actually the hand at the tiller of history. It is no government, no religious group, but actually what we call the human unconscious. But it is not unconscious, and it is not simply a cybernetic repository of myth and memory. It is an organized intellect of some sort, and human history is its signature on the primates, and it is so different from the primates. It is like a creature of pure information. It is made of language. It releases ideas into the flowing stream of history to boost the primates toward higher and higher levels of self-reflection of it. And we have now reached the point where the masks are beginning to fall away, and we are discovering that, you know, there is an angel within the monkey struggling to get free, and this is what the historical crisis is all about. And I'm, for no reasons in particular, very optimistic. I mean, I see it as a necessary chaos that will lead to a new and more attractive order. Terrence, you were talking about extraordinary realities, and...
 It occurs to me that there's an enormous amount of prejudice against the psychedelics and the use of hallucinogenic substances, and it's almost as if there's an inordinate fear to open up the door to the closet that these substances reveal. What about that prejudice? What do you think is, how is that going to be resolved? What is the resolution of that? Well, I think it's more complicated than a prejudice. It's a prejudice born of respect, because most people sense that these compounds probably actually do what their adherents claim they do. It's possible to see the whole human growth movement of the 1970s as a wish to continue the inward quest without having to put yourself on the line the way you had to when you took 250 gamma of LSD. And I think all these other methods are efficacious, but I think it's the sheer power of the hallucinogens that puts people off. You either love them or you hate them, and that's because they dissolve worldviews. And if you like the experience of having your entire ontological structure disappear out from under you, if you think that's a thrill, you'll probably love psychedelics. On the other hand, for some people, that's the most horrible thing they can possibly imagine. They navigate reality through various forms of faith. And I think that the psychedelics, the doors of perception are cleansed, and you see very, very deeply. I spent time in India, and I would always go to the local sadhus of great reputation, and I met many people who possessed what I call wise old man wisdom. But wise old man wisdom is a kind of Tao of how to live. It has nothing to say about these dimensions that the psychedelics reveal, and for that you have to go to places where hallucinogenic shamanism is practiced, specifically the Amazon basin. And there you discover that beyond simply the wisdom of how to live in ordinary reality, there is a gnosis of how to navigate in extraordinary reality. And this reality is so extraordinary that we cannot approach what these people are doing with any degree of smugness, because the frank fact of the matter is we have no viable theory of what mind is either. The beliefs of a Witoto shaman and the beliefs of a Princeton phenomenologist have an equal chance of being correct, and there are no arbiters of who is right. So it's the power of these things, the fact that here is something we have not assimilated. We have been to the moon, we have charted the depths of the ocean, the heart of the atom, but we have a fear of looking inward to ourselves, because we sense that here is where all the contradictions flow together. And the same prejudice against psychoanalysis that characterized the 20s and 30s, when it was thought to be superfluous or some kind of fad, attends the psychedelics now. It's because it touches a very sensitive nerve. It touches the issue of the nature of man, and people are uncomfortable with this, or some people are uncomfortable with this. What is the value of exploring extraordinary realities? Well, I guess it's the same value that attends the exploration of ordinary realities. There's an alchemical saying that one should read the oldest books, climb the highest mountains, and visit the broadest deserts. I think that being imposes some kind of obligation to find out what's going on, and since all primary information about what is going on comes through the senses, any drug or any compound which alters that sensory input has to be looked at very carefully. I've often made the point that, chemically speaking, you can have a molecule which is completely inactive as a psychedelic, and you move a single atom on one of its rings, and suddenly it's a powerful psychedelic. Well, now it seems to me this is a perfect proof of the inner penetration of matter and mind. The movement of a single atom from one known position to another known position changes an experience from nothing to overwhelming. This means that mind and matter at the quantum mechanical level are all spun together. This means that, in a sense, the term extraordinary reality is not correct if it implies a division of category from ordinary reality. It is simply there is more and more and more of reality, and some of it is inside our heads, and some of it is deployed out through three-dimensional Newtonian space. Most of us, I think, just simply accept the everyday reality as the only one. And you're talking about journeys into the nether regions, which are far beyond most people's conception or even wanting to conceive of such a reality. Well, I think there's a shamanic temperament, which is a person who craves knowledge. Knowledge in the Greek sense of gnosis. In other words, knowledge not of the sort where you subscribe to Scientific American and it validates what you believe, but cosmologies constructed out of immediate experience that are found always to be applicable. You see, I don't believe that the world is made out of quarks or electromagnetic waves or stars or planets or any of these things. I believe the world is made out of language, and that this is the primary fact that has been overlooked. The construction of a flying saucer is not so much a dilemma of hardware as it is a poetic challenge. And people find it very hard to imagine exactly what I'm talking about. What I'm saying is that the leading edge of reality is mind, and mind is the primary substratum of being. We in the West have had it the wrong way around for over a millennia, but once this is clearly understood, with what we have learned in our little excursion through three-dimensional space and matter, we will create a new vision of humanity that will be a fusion of the East and the West. The world being made of language, and I think of these extraordinary realities which are totally beyond any language that we use in any ordinary sense. Yes, well, they are beyond ordinary language. Just think of Philo Judeus writing on the Logos. He posed to himself the question, what would be a more perfect Logos? And then he answered saying, it would be a Logos which is not heard, but beheld. And he imagined a form of communication where the ears would not be the primary receptors, but the eyes would be. A language where meaning was not constructed through a dictionary of little mouth noises, but actually three-dimensional objects were generated with a kind of hyper-language so that there was perfect understanding between people. And this may sound bizarre in ordinary reality, but these forms of synesthesia and synesthesia glossolalia are commonplace in psychedelic states. George, could you identify Philo for us and tell us who he was? He was an Alexandrine Jew of the second century who made it his business to travel around the Hellenic world and discussed all the major cults and religious and cosmogonic theories of his day. So he's a major source of Hellenistic data for us. How would you relate to Socrates' view of the world? Well, I think that it's hard not to be a Platonist, but it's something perhaps we should struggle against, or at least struggle to modify. I think of myself as sort of a white-headian Platonist. Certainly the central Platonic idea, which is the idea of the ideas,
 archetypal forms which stand outside of time is one which is confirmed by the psychedelic experience. And Plato's formulation of time as the moving image of eternity is another one of these aphorisms that the psychedelic state confirms. And certainly Neoplatonism, and Porphyry, and that school are psychedelic philosophers. Their idea of an ascending hierarchy of more and more rarefied states is a sophisticated presentation of the shamanic cosmology, which is the cosmology that one experientially discovers when they involve themselves with psychedelics. What I think most of us don't understand or don't really know is the fact that Greek culture and the Eleusinian mysteries incorporated the use of something that very akin to psychedelics. Yes. And essentially Western civilization is based on the culture that had at its core root an experience and a ritual that that used, as I say, something akin to psychedelics. Yes, well for over 2,000 years everyone who was anyone in the ancient world made the pilgrimage to Eleusis and had this experience, which Gordon Wasson and Karl Ruck have argued very convincingly was a hallucinogenic intoxication on ergot. But of course, as soon as the church solidified its power, it closed these Platonic academies and moved against pagan, so-called pagan knowledge and heretical knowledge, and not only the Platonists, but all the Gnostic sects, all of these people, all of these viewpoints were repressed. I like to think that the end of that repression came in a very odd way when in 1953, I guess it was, Gordon Wasson and his wife Valentina in the village of Huatla de Jimenez in the Sierra Mazateca of Oaxaca discovered the psilocybin mushroom cult. It was as if Eros, who had been martyred in the old world, was then found sleeping in the mountains of Mexico and resurrected. And the experience of the mushroom is very much the experience of a genus loci, a god on the Grecian model, not the god who hung the stars in heaven, but a local god, a pre-Christian Bacchanalian nature power that is very alien and yet resonates with our expectations of what that experience would be like. Interesting that the mushroom also is a symbol in our culture of death and destruction, being the symbol of the nuclear explosion. Yes, well, my brother has made the point asking, you know, what mushroom is it that grows at the end of history? Is it the mushroom of Fermi and Oppenheimer and Teller, or is it the mushroom of Wasson and Hoffman and Humphrey Osmond? Somehow I think the latter is safer. Well, it may not only be safer, it may open the way to escape from the former. It's like a pun in physics that the force of liberation and the force of destruction could take the same form. It's what alchemists call a coincidencia positorum. It is an amazing synchronicity, it seems. Also, I was interested in talking with Andy Weil some time ago about the fact that there are new genus of mushrooms appearing that have psilocybin in them that have never been seen before, never been tracked before, and it's almost as if they're appearing now. Well, it's amazing how many have been discovered since people have bent their attention to it. There have been psilocybin mushrooms reported from England, France, localities where, so far as we know, there is no cultural history of usage at all. However, it's interesting that cultural usage seems to disappear very early in human history. Hallucinogens are hardly even welcome in agricultural societies. I think it was Weston Labar made the point that once you learn how to grow plants, your god shifts from the ecstatic god of the hallucinogens to the corn god or the food god, and it no longer is about divining the hunt and weather through the ecstatic use of hallucinogens. It's about being able to get up every morning and go to work and hoe the crop. So, you mentioned earlier the prejudice against hallucinogens. I think it reaches back to the beginning of agriculture. This competition among plant gods which exemplified lifestyles that must have seemed very, very alien to each other. Is psilocybin illegal? Oh, yes. It's a schedule one drug. Without any public debate, it was placed on the list at the same time that LSD was, and yet the issue was always couched in terms of LSD being made illegal, but actually at that point in time, a whole bunch of things were made illegal, and there was never any public debate. All psychedelics were viewed as the same drug, and LSD was used as the model. Actually, these drugs, there's a spectrum of psychedelic effects, and certain drugs trigger some of them and certain ones others, but yes, psilocybin is illegal. Are the mushrooms illegal? The mushrooms also are illegal as they contain psilocybin. I recall Andy Weil saying that he walked along a downtown Seattle residential street picking up psilocybin mushrooms from the front yards of residential homes. In English law took the view that it was preposterous to try and outlaw a naturally occurring plant, and they took the position that only the chemical was illegal, which I think is a very wise position, but I noticed that Canada recently chose the American interpretation over the British one. Interesting. Turns out, going back to the Andy Weil story, that the reason that these mushrooms were in such plenitude in various locales in the Northwest was that their spores were contained in a mail-order company's mushroom-growing product that they sent out mail-order, and so... Yes, well, this is an interesting phenomenon. You see, the spores of the mushroom are not illegal because they do not contain psilocybin. They only contain the message in the DNA of the mushroom for the production of psilocybin. So it's a kind of bizarre catch-22. The mushroom spores can move anywhere legally, can be bought and sold, but they are the sine qua non for the production of mushrooms, of course. Terence, the kind of knowledge and kind of information you're putting forward is not generally available. It's not the kind of information or knowledge that one would find in the typical academic anthropology curriculum, and yet it seems to be a knowledge that is ever expanding, but somehow it's outside of the cultural institutional entities in some way. Number one, why do you think that's the case? Of course, there's a logical answer to that one, but what do you see as the future of this kind of information, this kind of knowledge? Well, I think in a sense it signals the rebirth of the institution of shamanism in the context of modern society, and anthropologists have always made the point about shaman that they were very important social catalysts in their group, but they were always peripheral to it, peripheral to the political power, and actually usually physically peripheral, living at some distance from the village. And I think the electronic shaman, the people who pursue the exploration of these spaces, exist to return to tell the rest of us about it, that we are now coming into a period of racial maturity as a species where we can no longer have forbidden areas of the human mind or cultural machinery. We have taken upon ourselves the acquisition of so much power that we now must understand what we are. We cannot travel further with the definitions of man that we inherit.
 from the Judeo-Christian tradition, we need to truly explore the problem of consciousness, because as man gains power, he is becoming the defining fact on the planet in the near space area. So the question that looms is, is man good? And then, if he is, what is it he's good for? And the shaman will point the way, because what they are, are visionaries, poets, cultural architects, forecasters, all these roles, which we understand in more conventional terms, rolled into one and raised to the nth power. They are cultural models for the rest of us. This has always been true. The shaman has access to a superhuman dimension and a superhuman condition, and by being able to do that, he affirms the potential for transcendence in all people. He is an exemplar, if you will, and I see the attention that's being given to these things signaling a sense on the part of the society that we need a return to these models. This is why, for instance, in the Star Wars phenomenon, Skywalker, Luke Skywalker, Skywalker is a direct translation of the word shaman out of the Tungusic, which is where Siberian shamanism comes from. So these heroes that are being instilled in the heart of the culture are shamanic heroes. They control a force which is bigger than everybody and holds the galaxy together. And this is true, as a matter of fact, and as we explore how true it is, the limitations of our previous worldview will be exposed for all to see. I think it was JBS Haldane who said, the world may not only be stranger than we suppose, it may be stranger than we can suppose. I think of the character, excuse me, the character Yoda certainly is a shamanic type character. Very much so. As we talk about shamans and shamanism, again, that brings up cross-cultural currents. And do you see the shaman taking on a new, certainly you don't see Indian shamans walking into the metropolitan areas, but do you see the shaman taking on a new form? Well, I believe, along with Gordon Wasson and others, but in distinction to Marcella Yod, who is a major writer on shamanism, that it is hallucinogenic shamanism that is primary, and that where shamanic techniques are used to the exclusion of hallucinogenic drug ingestion, the shamanism tends to be vitiated. It is more like a ritual enactment of what real shamanism is, so that the shamanism that is coming to be is coming to be within people in our culture. The people who feel comfortable with psychedelic drugs and who, by going into those spaces and then returning with works of art or poetic accounts or scientific ideas, are actually changing the face of the culture. I connect the psychedelic dimension to the dimension of inspiration and dream. I think history has always progressed by the bubbling up of ideas from these nether dimensions into the minds of receptive men and women. It is simply that now, with the hallucinogens, we actually have a tool to push the button. We are no longer dependent upon whatever factors it is that previously controlled the ingression of novelty into human history. We have taken that function to ourselves, and this will accelerate and intensify the cultural crisis, but I think in the end it will lead that much sooner to its resolution. So, as we continue to move towards the further exploration of these spaces, we can expect that social change is a result? Personal change? Tremendous social change. I see, in fact, what is happening is a tendency to what I call turn the body inside out. We are, through our media and our cybernetics, we are actually approaching the point where consciousness can be experienced in a state of disconnection from the body. We have changed. We are no longer, as I said, bipedal monkeys. We are instead a kind of cybernetic coral reef of organic components and inorganic technological components. We have become a force which takes unorganized raw material and excretes technical objects. We have transcended the normal definitions of man. We are like an enormous collective organism with our data banks and our forecasting agencies and our computer networks and the many levels at which we are connected into the universe. Our self-image is changing. The monkey is all but being left behind and shortly will be left behind. The flying saucer, again, I take to be an image of the future state of humanity. It is a kind of millenarian transformation of man where the soul is exteriorized as the apotheosis of technology and it is that eschatological event which is casting enormous shadows backward through time over the historical landscape. That is the siren at the end of time calling all mankind across the last ten millennia toward it, calling us out of the trees and into history and through this series of multileveled cultural transitions to the point where the thing within the monkeys, the creature of pure language and pure imagination whose aspirations are entirely titanic in terms of self-transformation, that thing is emerging and it will emerge as man leaves the planet and it's not something quantized and clearly defined. It is, in fact, what the next 50 or so years will be about. But at the end of it, the species will be off-planet and transformed and fully wired from the depths to the heights. Are we just talking about another version of the Christian death, resurrection, ascension into heaven? Except that it is coming into history. What is happening is that the paradise promised the soul is actually going to enter into history because technological man took the apocalyptic aspirations of Christianity so seriously that we are going to make it happen. It has become the guiding image of what we want to be, and I'm reminded of the poem by Yeats, it's Sailing to Byzantium, where he speaks of how after death he would like to be an enameled golden object singing to the lords and ladies of Byzantium. And it's the image of man transformed into eternal circuitry and released into a hyperspace of information where you are a thing of circuitry but you appear to be walking along an unspoiled beach in paradise. It is that we are going to find the power to realize our deepest cultural aspirations. This is why we must find out what our deepest cultural aspirations are. Again, another way of phrasing the question, is man good? What about the idea that these spaces that we've been talking about, that you've been illuminating, are spaces that can be achieved without the use of psychedelics? Well, again, I scoured India and my humble personal opinion is that it is highly unlikely. I have always approached people of spiritual accomplishment with the question, what can you show me? Because, as I said earlier, this wise old man wisdom is one thing, but only the hallucinogen-using shaman of the Amazon seem to be able to go beyond that. There may be techniques for doing this, but the efficacy and the dependability of the hallucinogens seems to me to make them the obvious choice. It would only be a serious
 of cultural conventions that would cause one to want to engineer around that. It is the obvious path to transcendence. People must face the fact that at one level we are chemical machines. That doesn't mean we are that at every level, but it does mean that that is a level where we can intervene to change the pictures that are coming in and going out at higher levels. You're not suggesting that people should do this by themselves. Take hallucinogens? Well, I don't know about take it by themselves. Probably not, although I always do, and I seem to prefer it. What I am suggesting is they take it in a situation of minimum sensory input. Lying down in darkness with eyes closed cannot be surpassed, and people want music, they want to walk around in nature, they want all these things. But nature and music are beautiful in their own right. They are the adumbrations of the psychedelic experience that we deal with in ordinary reality. In confrontation with the psychedelic experience, these things are hardly more than impediments. The very interesting things are happening in the utter blackness behind your eyelids lying still in darkness, and that is where the mystery comes from and goes to. My question had to do with with or without a guide. Oh, I don't think people should do it without a guide unless they feel very confident from experience that they don't need a guide. I like to have these ideas get out. I think it's important that we discuss all this in a way that is only now becoming possible because of how it was in the 1960s. Now we need to shed all that and look back and look forward and try to make a mature judgment for our culture based on the facts of the matter.

Terence McKenna - We Are At The Cutting Edge - Workshop, August 1991

conferences on virtual reality. And, you know, on one level you have the gung-ho technocrats who just see this as the greatest form of entertainment ever, but it does raise certain fairly profound questions. I mean, if you can put on a glove and some iPhones and go into a synthetic world, let's say a lavishly furnished mansion on a hill, but in that mansion a painting hangs over the fireplace, and by pointing your finger at the painting you go through it and break through onto a pine dotted plane with a fountain in the center of it. And then by going to that fountain and walking through it, emerge back in the kitchen of the mansion, you know, where does reality begin and end? And how can we at this moment satisfy ourselves that we are not in some kind of solid-state matrix of some sort? How can we satisfy ourselves that this is not itself a simulacrum? And the answer is, you can't. We only assume it isn't, because that's called Occam's razor. You all know what Occam's razor is, right? It's the idea that hypotheses should not be multiplied without necessity. The simple way of saying that is, the simplest idea should always be preferred. But notice that this will lead you into deep error in most human situations. If you prefer the simplest explanation for what's going on, you'll never understand what's going on. I mean, you see two people and they're falling in love. If you assume they're falling in love because they like each other, you're probably missing the fact that one just inherited ten million dollars and the other is a rat. And, you know, one was abused as a child and the other is able to manipulate people all over the map. So Occam's razor is fine in the formulation of physical theory, but it doesn't take us far in understanding human motivation. What the psychedelics seem to me to argue for is that reality is not reality. There may be no reality, but certainly this is not it. This is some kind of highly provisional, culturally sanctioned hallucination that we are all participating in. And whatever it is, it yields ultimately to non-entity. I mean, our realities are sustained by our being. And from looking at what happens to other people, we know that eventually you get laid into the cold, cold ground. And then what is your reality worth? So reality, whatever it is, is temporary and yields to non-existence. That seems to be the primary ground of being. Yeah, over here. I have something that's a question to be explored as the week goes on. I mean, I've had that experience of, you know, quote-unquote reality being this very subjective thing. My question is, even if it's not real, how could we use that fact to create a reality that's more enjoyable? When it occurred to me was, you talked about these Amazon, Amazonian tribes and how, you know, what's happening on Wall Street isn't real there. Yet, you know, at some point that whole seemingly infinite forest could be cut out from under them because of what's happening on Wall Street. So I'm interested in how looking at this sense of reality not being real, how that all plays out with one reality intruding on another. Well, I think that what it points us toward, and this is where modern philosophy in large measure is gone, is realizing that the primacy of language. That it's, up until fairly recently, people have accepted the idea that you're born into the world and that's the world and then you make the best of it. It's the hand you've been dealt. But what they didn't understand was that this is a card game where you never have to show your hand. So you can claim to be holding eight aces. You can claim any damn thing you want. Reality is made out of language. Some people understand this and use it to bully the rest of us. I mean, we think, you know, you have to show your cards and they know that you just claim to have aces and eights and everybody gets out of your way. So as a culture, what we have to do is, and I'm definitely not big on this whole French thing, but nevertheless there is something to be said for this deconstructionist method. We have to get down to the bedrock of reality, which appears to be words, means, and ideas, and then build back up from that. We can otherwise, what we get is the momentum of past error. We think of the people in the past as tremendously naive relative to ourselves, but it's their intellectual world that we're living in because they thought up all this stuff and then we are acting out the consequences of it. How can we take control of the reality-creating machinery and then direct it in a way we want to go? No culture on earth has ever done this, or even conceived of the ideas so far as I can tell. There's a lot of fun poked at feminism for its preference for words like chairperson and stuff like that, and these examples seem somewhat trivial, but in fact the effort to reconstruct the language is very genuine because thought can't go where the roads of language have not been built. So you decide where you want to go and then you build a linguistic path there. This whole thing with the psychedelic experience, the way cultures lose touch with it is by not being able to say anything about it. And then it eventually gets so unsayable that if you start babbling about it they throw a net over you and say, oh well he became schizophrenic, they had serious delusions, had to be locked up, didn't understand that the universe is a half sphere on the back of a turtle being carried by a dwarf or whatever the sanctioned cultural reality is. So our political dilemma and our cultural dilemma is a linguistic dilemma and we need to take hold of language and build it consciously. Now so far the only people who have understood this very thoroughly have been bad people, fascists and other people with some hideous agenda that they wanted to displace the ordinary haphazard way of doing cultural business with. But it is not intrinsically compromised, it's simply that the sly among us figured this out ahead of all the rest of us. But we can learn from them and can begin to sanction realities that never existed before. I mean you've probably all heard me talk about memes and how what the reason I teach, the reason I write, the reason we all get together is because we're trying to launch new memes. You all know what a meme is, right? A meme is the smallest unit, this is how I define it. Somebody told me recently you define it wrong. It's alright, my definition is better. A meme is the smallest unit of an idea in the same way that a gene is the smallest unit of organismic existence. So the meme of Marxism is made up of sub memes of class struggle and return of the means of production to the workers and so forth and so on. These are Marxist memes. So I don't understand why this, you're kind of getting under the point that it's language based, why can't this meme be visual? Well I define language so broadly that it can be visual. I mean what it is is it's the signifier for cognitive activity and I don't want to get off into this kind of linguistic vocabulary about this stuff but language means dance, sculpture, painting, poetry, song.
 means cognitive activity. I mean, this is the glory of our species. This is what we do so much better than whoever's in second place. I mean, I guess the gorillas and the dolphins are a mile and a half behind doing whatever they're doing, but I just don't buy the notion that there is any other species on this planet, with the possible exception of mushrooms, that is involved in this language-making enterprise in quite the way we are. And it's how we escaped the iron constraints of organic existence. Culture is a kind of environment that we have learned how to interpose between ourselves and whatever is really out there. And we don't know what it was because we invented culture 50,000 years ago and nobody's seen anything else since. But there was something there that was so frightening and so alarming to us that we invented culture as a membrane that we would place between ourselves and it. And then there have been other membranes invented since. Urbanization. Let's all crowd into cities and jabber to each other. That will hold it even more at bay. And so forth and so on. I mean, we really behave as though we fear something tremendously toxic or something which has a dissolving force over our being that lies beyond the frontier of language. And this relates to the ego. The ego is this cultural invention that we have created. People don't need egos. I mean, you need one in this culture because everybody else has one and so you have to use yours to navigate through it. But it's not a necessary concomitant to being human. We could operate without them. But somehow we became traumatized by the ego and the experience of raw, unlanguaged nature and we created this strategy. And it's no different than, you know, I mean, some creatures create nests underground and some creatures coat themselves in toxic slime. We also did that, by the way. Because there's something that has to be held back and suppressed that's very alarming. It seems to me that you're, you know, on one point you're saying that, you know, we're way ahead of the dolphins because we've created this linguistic-based, you know, thing. And on the other hand, I see this, you know, but, I mean, you've also just said that we've created this linguistic-based hallucination that's isolated us from a perceptual-based, you know, I hesitate to use the word reality, but whatever you want to call it. And so why is this culture an improvement? Well, I'm not saying it's an improvement. It's an experiment of some sort. No other creature ever took this particular tack. Now, evolution seems to have its own set of values. What evolution is seeking to maximize is expression of the individual genome. In other words, there are two ways that a species can be successful. It can either evolve into an unoccupied niche of some sort that it then can tenaciously take hold of, or it evolves strategies for generalizing its existence so that it can occupy all sorts of niches. And this is what we've done. And when you look at the two possibilities, you see that creatures which follow the maximized adaptation to a single niche strategy usually become blocked. Cockroaches are a good example. Evolutionarily, we could say that they are tremendously successful, but all they do is persist. They haven't modified or changed themselves in 150 million years. But by your definition, if there's more cockroach genes out there than human genes, they're more successful than us. Well, not my definition, but the definition of biology. And cockroaches are always held up as this tremendously successful evolutionary adaptation. We have set out on a different course, and it's a course of continual redefinition. We can retool our culture very quickly. We have thrown away the mechanisms of genetic change and natural selection through modification of mutation, which was very, very slow and apparently a random walk. It didn't have any kind of telos. But cultures can actually set up goals and move toward them, even very large and unlikely goals. I mean, like the Third Reich, their decision that it would be a good idea to eliminate Jews from Central Europe. I mean, this is a crazy idea. It would never happen. Nothing like that would ever happen in a situation of organic evolution. But in a situation of cultural evolution, the idea becomes the guiding image for the society and then outrageous things are done and the consequences of that are played out. I would like to think that we have not escaped from the yoke, the controlling yoke of nature. In other words, we aren't off on some demonic tear where we are just like evil incarnate, but that actually nature requires a species such as ourselves to basically to harness energy. We are on a higher level doing what the mitochondria did in the abiotic oceans of the earth a billion years ago. We're energy storage and release mechanisms sanctioned by nature for some purpose which will be visible somewhere downstream in the flow of time, but which is opaque to us. For us, history seems a kind of a nightmare, but it must, I think, have a happy ending or it would never have been allowed to happen in the first place. I just don't think that a monkey species had the wherewithal to evade the mechanisms of control and constraint that guide and direct everything on the planet. There is a purpose to history and I don't want to go into it tonight, but as many of you know, I've spent a lot of time thinking about this, trying to figure out something good about the human race, something that can be said of us that will redeem the sins that we have visited upon the planet. It isn't easy, but some of our best people are working on it. You know what I mean? If in fact part of what we are is the unveilment of the world or nature as you're referring to now. Well, maybe what's going on is that nature, you see, we as individuals can remember the past and model the future, but it may be that nature operates in an entirely different way. This harks back to our discussion of Platonism. Nature may have a kind of viewpoint in eternity. Nature may actually see what needs to be done and can plan on a scale of a million or a hundred million years so that, well, this is slightly a field, but it keeps coming up so it's worth talking about. Every body in the solar system, all of the inner planets, all of their moons, all of the solid bodies that orbit around the gas giants in the outer solar system, every piece of rock in the entire solar system has just been hammered to pieces by asteroid and planetesimal infall. And we prefer not to think about this. As recently as last January, what's called an Apollo asteroid crossed within a half lunar distance of the Earth. This is hair-raisingly close and there's this crater out in Arizona. It's only 50,000 years old. Whatever came down there was only about 30 feet across and everything within 800 miles died instantly when that thing came down. There's a scar on the Canadian shield larger than the crater Copernicus on the moon.
 Now this crater is over a billion and a half years old. The point being, the universe may be a fantastically chaotic and dangerous place. And so our cheerful model of what biology is about is that, you know, we've evolved over a billion and a half years and we have a billion years more and there's no hurry and it's all fine and man has thousands of years to work out the problems of civilization and so forth and so on. But it may actually be that nature senses some kind of danger and that a species like ourselves is a response to this danger. Our most astonishing feat as a species to date, besides language I think, is that we can, though we are made of mush, we can summon to the deserts of this planet the light which burns at the center of the stars themselves. Not bad for anthropoid apes. I mean, granted, as soon as we do this we then plot and scheme on how to bring it down on the heads of our enemies. That's not our noblest trait. But the fact that we could go into matter and wrest a secret like atomic fusion from it and then carry that out is astonishing. And it may be that history, which lasts in the technical phase 25,000 years, something like that. I mean, if you go back just 15,000 years it's a pretty bare wires scene. So the whole thing is a wink of an eye, you know, a geological instant from somebody getting the idea that you could flake flint off a core to the idea that you could send a starship to Zeta Reticuli, you know, 25,000 years to do that. And so I think that we have a destiny, and probably our destiny is to save the planet. And you know, it would be the final irony if we spent a huge amount of time hammering on each other to get rid of nuclear weapons and stop cutting the rainforests and stuff like that. Then one of these planetesimals contacted the earth and we all died instantly. This thing that passed by at a half lunar distance in January, it was not detected until five days later. Had it actually impacted the earth, you would never have known what hit you. This thing which killed the dinosaurs 65 million years ago, it raised a tidal wave five miles high that moved out from the impact point at five times the speed of sound. Can you picture a tidal wave five miles high moving at Mach 5? I mean, we're talking major smush here. And the evidence is there that this happens, that these things are not rare, that it will happen again. I mean, if you take a long enough time span, they say it's a certainty. Take it to the bank. But still the earth survived, so when you say, do you know what I mean? Well, it survived. This thing which killed the dinosaurs, nothing larger than a chicken walked away from it. On this planet, nothing larger than a chicken. Okay, so that's the bad news. The good news is, the flowering plants evolved in the wake of that catastrophe. The mammals got their purchase. They were egg-stealing weasels up until that point, and then this opened up an opportunity for them to rush in and exfoliate all kinds of different forms. The earth has faced outrageous crises in its history. At a very distant point in the history of the earth, anaerobic life dominated the earth. And then it began to produce oxygen as a toxic by-product. Oxygen was as toxic to the early life forms on earth as plutonium is to us. And yet, strategies were evolved, and this huge problem was gone around, and we then are the result of this. So yes, there is no moral, there is finally no moral judgment. There's just, you know, shit happens. That seems to be the rule, and then you can think it's good or bad or indifferent. But that's not the human point of view. The human point of view is that we have something very precious here that we want to conserve, that we want to carry through any conceivable catastrophe. And so, you know, technology may be a strategy for this. This is why it's very important for us to think about reality on different levels. I started out by talking about philosophical reality, something for, you know, elderly people to discuss in book line parlors. But there's also stuff like what is the reality of our circumstance in this star swarm, in this galaxy? Are we safe or are we imperiled? What should we be doing? Is it okay to, should we be worrying about saving the rainforests, or is that preposterous in the light of what we're facing? And how can we know? What is to be done? The Tolstoyan question, what is to be done? You can't begin to answer that question until you have some notion of what reality is. And at this stage in trying to understand what reality is, all processes seem to me to be deconstructive. We need to take apart our languages, our cultural assumptions, the geological history of this planet, the biological history, the astrophysical nature, the structures in which we're embedded in. We need to awaken to our true circumstance. The dreams that culture gives us, that we should be good Nazis or good Buddhists or good Wittoto, these are just illusions that are temporary delusions which make possible the business of culture. But something now is happening that is different. We are becoming a global civilization. Power is being given into our hands that is truly power on a cosmic scale. What difference did it make when bronze-tipped spears were the heaviest thing anybody could bring to bear on any problem? But once you can blow the earth apart, like putting a stick of dynamite in a rotten apple, then you actually become actors on a cosmic scale. And this is the situation in which we find ourselves. This is why there's a certain urgency, I think, because I totally disagree with people who think that human history can be seen wandering aimlessly into the millennia of the future with faster spacecraft and better packaged foods and more effective forms of psychotherapy and so forth. I mean, this seems to me preposterous. Obviously, human history is some kind of self-limiting process that is seeking to maximize something. And if you look over what we've been doing, it seems like what we're trying to maximize is an ability to release energy. While there may be more exotic ways to release energy than thermonuclear fusion, but thermonuclear fusion is a huge leap in the order of magnitude of the kind of energy that you can release. I mean, before nuclear fusion, the biggest explosion, the biggest release of energy that anybody could create was some kind of conventional bomb of some sort, which didn't amount to zip except in the place where it happened to be dropped. Nuclear weapons are a whole other thing. I mean, all our dreams, all our religious fantasies about the end of the world, that was harmless enough stuff when all we could do is split each other's heads open. Well, okay, so that's perhaps enough about the point of view of straight science because I doubt there are very many people in this room who actually practice that kind of science. A point that should be made about reality that comes slightly closer to the experience of each of us is for society to work for reality, always in quotes, to work, we have to assume that we are sharing the same reality.
 And there are different levels on which this assumption operates. For instance, many of you have heard me talk about the slippery vicissitudes of language, that in fact we are communicatingwe are most in agreement when we are silent with each other, because then our assumptions about how we're in agreement are able to fully unfurl themselves. But all it takes is somebody breaking that silence and stating the contents of their mind for the assumption of our shared reality to completely collapse upon us. Because it turns out, you know, I think it's one way, you think it's another, I believe we're doing X, you think we're doing Y, I think we're serving so-and-so, and you think we're serving somebody else. And this is why, you know, I think great relationships are built in silence, because then nobody ever finds out what's really going on. Did you want to say something? Yeah. When you're talking about science, are you talking about the kind of science where, in order for it to be science, you have to repeata certain situation has to be repeated, and you have to get the same response, so that that proves out to be a truth? Well, yeah. I mean, that's a good definition of science. So that when you're talking about reality in the moment, that that never proves out true, because if you're in that artistic moment, then you never get a repetition. You're getting a synchronicity where your reality's in tune with a flow thatthe words I use is like miraculous, that people start showing up when I need them to chop chop, and it's when I let go of my ego and my need for a specific thing that that flow starts to happen. And in a scientific world, you need the same thing repeated several times in order to get it to be a truth. That's right. I mean, a good definition of science, not one that any scientist would be comfortable with. I mean, they think they're doing God's work or something. But the fact of the matter is, what science is, is the study of those phenomenon so crude that a return to initial conditions will cause the phenomenon to repeat itself. Well, if you think about your own life, there's nothing like that in your own life. Love affairs, careers, disappointmentsnothing that we experience as human beings has that quality. So, this is the problem with science, is that in the pursuit of explanation, it has cut itself off absolutely from making sense of anything in our own lives. That's why efforts by science to move into the domains of our own lives have not been happy. Sciences like psychology and sociology are pseudosciences, as far as I'm concerned, because the objects they seek to explicatepersonalities in one case and human-group interaction in anotherare not scientific phenomena, because they don't fall under the rubric of restoration of initial conditions allows the same situation to unfold. But I want to point out, go further than thiswell, first of all, let me say one more thing about that. Maybe what you just said is not quite true, because if you were able to provide the whole set of same initial conditions, which is impossible to provide, but if you were able to provide exactly the same circumstances, there is a chance that that may happen. The problem is that you're not able to understand what all the initial conditions are. No, I think that since the invention of the probability calculus, that's not even believed anymore. In other words, the idea used to be that if you think of the universal history as a film, that if you ran it back to the beginning and then hit the start button again, everything will happen exactly like it happened before, and I will be born in poor but humble circumstances in a Colorado mining town. But I think now the understanding is that only generally would the same things happen, and that even in orthodox science, probability allows for slight deviation. So it isn't an absolute determinism. Well, I don't believe that, because my feeling is that what we are just saying is that we don't understand what's happening, and the probability is just saying, more or less, I guess it's going to be around there. I just have some idea of what's happening. But it's saying, I'm not understanding the process really well, and therefore I can guide you approximately where you're going. So do you think that if we could return to the initial conditions of the Big Bang and have it happen again, that five billion years later, I would be sitting here with the same amount of change in my pocket as I have right now? I don't believe that we could do that. Well, you brought it up! I don't believe that we could go back to the Big Bang and be back there. But what I'm saying is that the fact that you're saying that if we go back to the same initial conditions, then it's going to reproduce itself, that statement is not true. It's not true either. Well, see, the problem is there's only one set of initial conditions that are truly initial, which is the Big Bang. All other sets of initial conditions are embedded in some larger surround where everything has changed. I mean, for instance, if we say, well, we can never restore initial conditions. The planets have moved. The stars are older. How can we restore the initial conditions? Everything only happens once, and then it never repeats itself. But, I'm plowing toward this thing. But I want to say one more thing. I'll subvert myself. That is, in order to do its work, science had to, and this happened with Descartes, had to take the things that are most dear to us, colors, taste, feeling, tactility, and it defined those things as what it calls secondary qualities. Basically, this is a way of saying they're not important. None of that is important. And what is important are primary qualities, spin, velocity, angular momentum, charge. Strangely enough, things none of us have a very intuitive grasp of, nor do we ever encounter these things in any naked form. They're always embedded in matter. So, science, in order to do its work, basically had to define the universe of feeling, emotionality, and immediacy as somehow peripheral, derivative, epiphenomenal, unimportant. And we all live with this legacy, unconsciously or consciously. We are the victims of this kind of denigration of what we intuitively feel to be important, which is immediate experience. And immediate experience is not an object for scientific inquiry. Never has been, never will be. I mean, these pseudosciences fiddle with it a little bit, but the first thing they do when they study, for instance, human behavior, is they set up an experimental situation, which is not like any human behavior you've ever dealt with before. Like either looking at screens and pushing buttons, or receiving electric shocks if you get right answers, and stuff like that. I mean, how many times do we find ourselves in a situation where if we get a right answer, we avoid an electric shock? I mean, it's absurd. However, then, there is a further distancing from reality that takes place, that is not to be laid at the feet of science, although to discuss it we have to use scientific terminology. And that is, it goes like this. We all assume that if we are... I just stated what a great thing silence was for building shared assumptions. So, if we are all silent, and we look around us in this room, we do tend to make the assumption that we all see the same thing, that we are all sharing the experience of the room. But when you analyze...
 perception, you discover a very weird thing about perception. For instance, let's take the primary sense in human beings, which is sight. We trust our eyes. We believe that our eyes tell us something about immediate reality. However, if you analyze what sight is, what seeing is, it's that light reflected off surfaces, pours into a sensory organ, and then is transduced through a series of neurological transforms into an interiorized model of the immediate surround. The problem with this is that the light which enters my eyes is entirely mine. You don't get any of it, and the light which enters your eyes is entirely yours. Not a single photon is ever shared by two people. If it's my photon, it can't be yours, because photons can only be in a very discreetly defined area of space, in this case in my retina. So everything I'm seeing is entirely opaque to you, hidden, occult, and everything you're seeing is entirely opaque and hidden to me. We are truly prisoners of our unique perception. So it's a miracle that we can build models where we get any sort of shared consensus out of it at all. Sure, you're driving the tape editor mad. Well it demonstrates it by the fiat of a fishy formula, don't you think? Well, I think that explaining it, it's not really explainable in the sense of if you mean how do you reduce it to a linear logic, you don't. It's pretty mysterious. Well it does come out of a linear, I mean it ends up you have to assume that the photon goes through both slits, and you get the interference pattern as a linear superposition. So it is in a sense linear, but what I would argue is since a photon is not a little particle, it's something else. I mean at least one of its properties is that it fills the entire universe and can interfere, one could understand that we're all receiving in fact the same photon. Every photon that goes in my eye goes in everybody else's. Well, but when you say it fills the entire universe, it fills some parts of the universe much more than others. Yes, and that's what gives it its particulate nature, is that it tends, it is technically everywhere, but it's only technically everywhere. In any practical sense, whenever we carry out a measurement on it and seeing is a kind of collapse of this quantum vector, then it appears to be particulate. That's absolutely right. We've only ever observed photons as particulate, but the effects we observe, like the interference pattern, is not particulate. You can't explain it. That's right. So even though that photon that goes through your eyes mostly goes through yours, and only a little bit goes through mine, you can't ignore the bit that goes through mine, because there are lots and lots of examples of quantum interference. But don't you think that the experiments which prove this kind of thing depend on such a vast chain of assumptions that the experiment itself becomes highly questionable? I mean, first of all, the first assumption that's made that is absolutely outside the realm of proof is that mathematics has something to say about reality. And we could actually have spent the entire evening on this, except that it probably would clear the room of all but the most hardcore. But no one has ever, no one has ever shown why operations with numbers, which are after all entities only known to be met with in the confines of the minds of anthropoid apes, should somehow have this overwhelming relationship to reality. What is the relationship of mathematics to what we call reality? The fact is, nobody knows. It's a deep mystery. Well, then when you talk about experiments, the assumptions, the hidden assumptions behind any experimentalist approach are usually so great that once made explicit, the experimental method is seen to be simply the servant of a formal theory, and can't be seen to serve truth at all. Do you agree with that? Yeah, I do. I mean, that's what you end up facing, is the fact that it's our concepts that are creating the reality. And so even the assumption that there's a surface out there that's reflecting light is not an assumption that a physicist would make. Yeah, well... We made that assumption and couldn't get anywhere. I mean, it just doesn't work. It breaks down. That's right. I think the purpose of this evening is to show that reality is a naive concept, and should probably be abandoned as quickly as possible. When I hear this reality from a standpoint of physical explanations, which seem like red herrings in some way to me, is that speaking from what would be a more spiritual viewpoint, that the physical plane and things matter and everything falls out from more archetypical, or something that has a less or more spiritual meaning, which I don't have so much a reality problem with, in other words. That seems more real to you, this invisible dimension of eternal objects that are casting a lower dimensional shadow into the stream of time and giving rise to appearances. Yeah, that's what you mean, isn't it? Took the words right out of his mouth. Yeah, the experience. Well, I think this is why Greek philosophy was able to do business so successfully, is that this seems intuitively true to most people. It's sort of like campfire philosophy. If you just sit down and try to figure it out, there's something in the human mind, I suppose it's self-referential if we call it archetypes, but there's something in the human mind that causes us to gravitate toward this platonic point of view. The problem is, it's very naive, and the naivete of Platonism has never seemed to erode its success. I mean, it's been converting sophomores for 3,000 years almost, but in a way, the great victory of modern thinking, and I'm amazed to hear myself say this because I'm a Platonist through and through, but you have to be a modified Platonist or you will end up running up against impossible problems with it. For instance, if these archetypes are eternal, well then, if the archetype of the human love affair is eternal, then are we asked to believe that the archetype of the human love affair existed before the Big Bang? Did the law of gene segregation exist before the Big Bang? This is what Rupert's always at such pains to talk about. Natural laws. I mean, what is the status of these natural laws before the appearance of the universe? Is there a kind of hyperspace of eternity? And then why are these natural laws as they are? It seems much more economical and intuitively less problem-fraught to assume that the so-called laws of nature are actually habits of nature that are changing through time as the universe evolves and changes. I mean, I don't think it makes any sense to talk about the law of gene segregation before there was organic life. I mean, how could there be a law of gene segregation? I mean, it just gets too patched together as a theory, don't you think? No, I think that you're introducing those are loaded problems that you're to talk about the Big Bang as itself, you know, and the whole, you know, time and etc. Well, what do you think the status of these archetypes is? Do they require a universe or are they there whether there is a universe of space-time?
 matter. I don't know. Well, it seems that that's only a problem if you're thinking of time in a normal type of regression and normal types of causal relationships, you know, so it seems that's to refute the idea of an eternal archetype because of, you know, well, did they exist before this? So you want to substitute a Boolean logic here. Well, we could say, for instance, we could invert the causality of the universe and say that the platonic objects exist at the end of time and that they cast their influence backwards through time, and we could even define an archetype as that class of objects whose causoistry runs counter to the ordinary arrow of time. I never thought of that before. It's probably fraught with epistemic peril, but somebody might want to work out the consequences of that. It's the idea, you see, that is now very hot in chaos theory that there is an attractor rather than an impeller, that it isn't that there was a Big Bang and everything is moving out from the Big Bang and physics is the unraveling of the consequences of this initial improbability. It's rather the idea that there is a telos of some sort, a purpose, that is drawing phenomena into some kind of concrescence that occurs not at the beginning of the causal process but at its end. And I tend to lean toward that, but not in so hard a fashion that I would want to locate the archetypes at the end of history. I think Platonism is a naive view of reality and that it's something we pass through in our intellectual process of maturation and that you always want to maintain the idea of the archetype, but it has to be severely modified to meet some of the problems that have been discovered in the last couple of thousand years of doing that kind of philosophy. Sure, go ahead. Based on altered states that I've been in where returning to a more ordinary state, I have the sense clearly that everything, all this material, all the events and everything is a fallout from some drama that I'm a part of. All my ideas, including whatever I might construct about time and the whole thing, and so then I'm left with that sort of quandary about no matter what I construct and what experiments I might do if I were a physicist, it's all to just confirm this other drama that's happening. That happens an infinite number of times and with infinite variations, etc. Sort of the point that I would like to make is the point you're making, that reality is, if explored at all, if stressed, if pushed, it breaks apart. The concept isn't viable. The first thing to realize is where is it writ large that anthropoid apes should be able to reach the bedrock of reality? Why should we imagine that beings like ourselves are somehow divinely charged with the opportunity to perceive the truth of the matter? This is what modern philosophy has come to understand. This is why Wittgenstein could come up with the notion of what he called true enough. That's a much more reasonable approach to things. I mean, after all, we're monkeys. And so what we need is models that are true enough and leave God alone in his or her heaven and just work with the things that are rationally apprehendable to us. You mention altered states, and I think if it weren't for altered states, our epistemic naivete would be much greater because we could all just fall into the culturally sanctioned hallucination that this is, in fact, reality. But we all know from experiencing altered states that this is just some kind of agreed-upon, socially sanctioned construct that when you lean against it with drugs or philosophy or insight, it breaks up under the pressure of that. What we call reality is, in fact, nothing more than a culturally sanctioned and linguistically reinforced hallucination of some sort. And we can go outside of that hallucination either by using drugs or physical practices like yoga or simply by going outside of our reality. I mean, when you go to an Amazon tribe, all these things that you think are so important, you know, how the giants are doing or what's happening on Wall Street or how the Democrats are getting their act together, nobody knows what in the world you're talking about. It is literally not real. And what's real is, you know, how the fish are spawning in the river and honey production that year. They have their own culturally sanctioned hallucination. Well, then when you take psychedelic drugs, you seem to dissolve the sort of the software of neurological processing. And language is that software that has been created to handle certain kinds of cultural modalities. Well, then you, like, penetrate beyond the screen, if we think, if you want to use a computer metaphor, and instead you discover there's assembly language in the machine. And it's deep in the machine and is rarely encountered except by hackers. I mean, that's what you're doing when you're taking psychedelic drugs is you're opening the cabinet. You're going into the machinery, all those areas where it says the warranty will be voided if you remove this plate. Those are the plates that you're unscrewing and poking inside of, voiding the warranty on your model of reality. And we don't know to what degree this can go on. I recently was approached by the publishers Underwood and Miller. And they asked me, some of you may know the science fiction writer Philip K. Dick. He came in the last five years of his life to believe that he was, in a sense, trapped inside one of his own novels. And he was the master of the parallel universe novel. He worked this theme so many ways. I mean, he was brilliant at it. And he underwent a series of experiences that we can't really judge. I mean, it's too facile to call it a psychotic break. And he spent the last ten years of his life trying to understand what was happening to himself. And he reached the conclusion that the year A.D. 70 was followed immediately by the year 1948. And that the intervening couple of thousand years were like a textual interpolation by a demurge. And that none of that ever happened. That we're actually living in the last years of the Roman Empire. That we are living in patristic time. And he saw superimposed over ordinary reality another reality which he was fully engaged in, living in. He was a person in this place and this time. Well, is that a serious delusion or a breaking through? Something that occurs to me as you're talking that might be interesting to pursue a little bit is, at Esalen we're just starting an arts program. In fact, tomorrow we're having an auction for a dance platform. And I've heard you say that you think that the arts creativity is sort of the answer. And so that might be a topic or comment at least of something about what you have to say about the arts and how the arts are going to be an answer. You mean how can doing art save the world? Yeah. Or a smaller version of that. Oh no, we always go to the top of the... If it doesn't save the world, why bother even discussing it? Yeah, well, it's an interesting...
 question, I mean, in a nutshell, and I'll go back to it, but the reason I think it's so important is because when we grapple with the problems that are, you know, many and complex around us, the tendency is to go for rational solution. But you might bear in mind that the consequences of rational solutions are what we are dealing with at the present. Rationalism has been the dominant paradigm for problem-solving for about 500 years, and it has led us deeper and deeper into, you know, contradiction, resource mismanagement, dehumanization, misperception of each other, so forth and so on. That's why, in a way, I think that the art reflex is more important because, or more efficacious, because if we act from the point of view of wanting to create art, what we're really saying is that reality has outrun apprehension. We can no longer make rational sense out of reality, so the ego is set aside, and the logos, or the muse, is invoked, and then we produce art, and almost the distinguishing characteristic of great art is that it not be fully comprehensible to its creator. So, we then act as agents of the logos when we create art, and the art that is created is then put out into the cultural environment of meaning, and is then subject to a kind of natural selection, similar to the kind of natural selection that goes on in an environment where biological species are competing. The shorthand way of saying this is, the best idea will win, but it won't win unless it competes, you know? You can't win the race unless you run the race. So, rather than beating our brains against the end of history, trying to create rational solutions to what is essentially an irrational situation in the first place, it would be, I think, much better to become servants of the logos, servants of the guy in mind, and then to let, sort of let the chips fall where they may, let the selective pressures of intellectual history sort out among the many options, and those that are important will come to the fore. Does that get it, as a brief pass, why it's important? It's important because it's anti-rational, because it's anti-ego, because it says we are vessels and agents of the solution, but we can't, it doesn't spring from our ability to integrate data and reflect it back. It's much more irrational than that. This sort of goes to what I thought I would talk about a little bit tonight. I used the phrase a few minutes ago, reality outruns apprehension. This is actually a phrase from Moby Dick, not the part of Moby Dick that I will probably end up reading to you tonight. But what I thought would be interesting to talk about, basically, because of its intrinsic interest and its recent intensification, is sort of the question, what is reality, number one, and then what's so great about it, and why bother? I mean, we really have a bee in our bonnet about reality. When you get out of touch with it, this is considered not a good thing. Reality is the unmoving reference point in a universe of flux to which we are always supposed to go back and re-reference ourselves, and it's a funny concept. First of all, it is a concept. It's not an object with its own interior ontos. In other words, it doesn't have being outside of the culture's assumptions about it. This is the first big news about reality. The reality of the Witoto is a completely different reality from the West European or the Canadian, and yet the reality is, we assume that there is a kind of bedrock, and we call that reality, then everything is referenced back toward that. Well, I wanted to talk about it tonight because it's an incredibly slippery concept. I mean, I would say getting your hands on reality is about as likely as getting your hands on true love. You're always going toward it or looking back at it, but you rarely have it in front of you in the moment, and yet the moment is where we spend most of our time, so we're kind of run ragged by the nostalgia for something we never knew is what it almost comes down to. First of all, whenever we want to talk about something seriously and profoundly, we have recourse to science. However, reality is a term that if it's used at all, it's used in philosophy, in ontology, in epistemology. It is not a concept that you hear very often on the lips of scientists. Well, why is this? Well, it's because science, which is the enterprise which seeks to carry out a complete investigation of reality, has quickly satisfied itself that the beast can't be caged. It's very hard to actually come up with something concrete, and that's an interesting notion that any discussion of reality will tend to come back to. It wasn't until the 1930s that Alfred North Whitehead, in his book Process and Reality, created the great phrase that has now entered the language, the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. You've all probably heard this phrase, or maybe you haven't heard this phrase. But anyway, the fallacy of misplaced concreteness is the belief that there is something somewhere which is real, which can be depended upon, which everything else can be referenced back to. And as long as you are victim of this fallacy, you are philosophically naive and probably not at ease psychologically, because it's like, as I said, nostalgia for something you never knew. The way science's method, which worked very well for the first 450 years, and by science I don't mean science going back to the Greeks. I mean science since the Renaissance. Mathematically based Cartesian materialism is basically my notion of science. Its method is what's called reductionism. This is the theory that if you want to understand something, an atom, a plant, a society, a geological formation, what you do is you take it apart. You deconstruct it. You dismantle it and catalog its parts and then define their relationships to each other. And then somehow when you recombine all these maps of this deconstructed object, you then somehow possess it. And this worked very well up until well into the 20th century, because it was assumed that matter, which was taken to be somehow a primary constituent of reality, that matter was made out of tiny billiard balls that were called Hamiltonian atoms, and that these distinct and concrete billiard balls could be located absolutely in time and space, and their relationships to each other defined as charge, force, energy.
 momentum, spin, so forth and so on, and that out of these primary qualities adhering to these elementary particles, notice these words primary, elementary, that are telling us we're getting close to bedrock, out of this you could reconstruct the world. The problem is, and I won't bore you with this because so many people have, quantum physics showed that these hard little billiard balls were the most tragic example of the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. They don't exist. There isn't such a thing. When you go down and down and down, suddenly everything becomes paradoxical. Ordinary logic no longer applies and, you know, without beating a dead horse, I would remind you that quantum physics, quantum electrodynamics, which is always held up as the greatest intellectual edifice ever constructed by the mind of man, is a complete mess in terms of the aesthetic of its logics, because it requires two logics operating simultaneously. You have what is called ordinary logic, the logic that we as animals intuitively gravitate toward, which says things such as, if it is A, then it is not B. If it is now, then it is not then. If it is after, then it is not before. This is kind of logic that assumes concrete objects in a linear time stream. But quantum physics, then, to solve the problems it sets itself, it requires another kind of logic, an extremely exotic logic called Boolean algebra. And so what you get when you look at a quantum mechanical explanation of nature is you get what are called aisles of Boole embedded in ordinary mathematical logic. So there are actually transition zones, very distinct transition zones, where you simply switch logics in midstream, literally in midstream, in order to solve the problem. Well, this then gives you a nice set of numbers in an experimental situation where you are trying to calculate the charge of the electron or the displacement value of particles or something like that. But it rests on this completely inelegant switching back and forth from one logic to another, as the case requires, which means the human observer is brought in and you get to decide which logic to use. And then you can use one for a few minutes and then switch back to the other and go back and forth. Upon such shifting sand as this, the entire edifice of science rests. Okay, well, that's really all I want to say about the scientific view of reality. It's just to... Yeah, Paul. I just wanted to say that I don't see science that way. And I think maybe one has to switch between science and physics because in the 19th century there were many physicists who realized and argued against the possibility of a mechanistic universe. And quantum mechanics was the final death call of that point of view, but it was argued for 100 years and maybe 300 years before that that mechanism can't exist, that reality doesn't exist. You mean, are you thinking of vitalism? No, I'm just thinking that it was clear to many physicists, at least, in the last century that we weren't going to be able... In other words, this notion of atoms was very clearly understood to be just a model. People, physicists at least, some physicists, didn't confuse the notion of a model or a concept with reality. And, in fact, they argued quite clearly that these concepts aren't reality. In fact, we will never find a mechanism for our consciousness. Yeah, well, the great enlightenment of 19th century physics occurred around the issue of fields because until James Clerk Maxwell and Lorentz and these people wrote the equations for the electromagnetic field, it was denied that such a thing was possible because it had this apparent quality of action at a distance. And that completely freaked out 19th century expectations of how nature should behave. We take this completely for granted. I mean, there's a radio sitting in this cabinet that we could flip on and if we weren't in such a benighted geographical situation, we could hear hundreds of AM and FM radio stations. Well, those are wave mechanical systems that are filling this room that are invisible to ordinary perception. To the 19th century mind, this was completely occult and astonishing. We take it for granted. Marshall McLuhan at one point suggested that the worldwide electrification of the planet through the spread of radio and television and electrical systems was actually the descent of the Holy Ghost into history. That electricity was the Holy Ghost to control and to understand because we can do it. We don't need the second coming of Christ. We don't need divine intervention to destroy this planet. We can do it well enough on our own, thank you. So, a huge responsibility evolves upon people within the global culture to try and come to terms with what is possible and what is to be done. And I think we have to doubt everything that we're told. All the theology that we have inherited served a different kind of world. I mean, don't forget that as recently as a hundred years ago people believed that the Earth was created on September 15th, 4004 BC. I mean, the steam engine was the most powerful form of technology that existed. In the last hundred years we have gone more than half of the distance that we've traveled in the last 50,000 years. And you can actually begin to see the outlines of what it's all about. As caretakers of the Earth, as caretakers of intelligence because this is all the intelligence that we know of we must, in fact, come to terms with what is being asked of us. What is it that we are supposed to be doing? How can we rationally order our societies to maximize the values that we inherently and intrinsically feel to be worth saving? The cause is to create culture. Why did we fall into history? Why did we create culture? What were we afraid of? I've been reading Camille Paglia and she says it's the... You rascal! Oh! Well, you know what she says. Oh, I know what she says, yes. The chaos, the underworld, that quality, the violence of nature, the disorder. Well, we were... I think what happened and, you know, you've all heard me talk about it in operational terms we were as embedded in nature as the fox and the leafcutter ant and the polar bear until a hundred thousand years ago or something like that. And then this ability to signify... It has something to do with our relationship to shamanism and psychedelic drugs. You see, when you look at primates of all types going clear back to squirrel monkeys you always get male dominance. Male dominance was not invented in the Middle East three thousand years ago. Squirrel monkeys have alpha male primates and anthropoid apes, all of the primates have this problem. But I really believe that we temporarily overcame it. About from, let's say, twenty five thousand years ago to ten thousand years ago we temporarily overcame the tendency for male dominance to occur as a natural part of our being social animals. And this happened because shamanism evolved as an institution which relied on psychoactive...
 plants to dissolve the male ego and it's not only I mean we don't have to call it the male ego that just polarizes and gender rises the thing it's the ego the ego is this strange transference of loyalty from the group to the self the individual body and then we call that the self the reason this so that psychedelic shamanism specifically the use of psilocybin on the plains of Africa was like a chemical inoculation against the formation of ego and under the influence of psychedelic compounds we evolved language and you know social roles and rudimentary agriculture and nomadism all of these things but then the the psychedelic substances which made this possible began to become less and less available this is simply because of climatic change in Africa you see the Sahara what is now the Sahara Desert was a belt of grassland throughout prehistory as late as Roman times the Roman historian Pliny referred to North Africa as the breadbasket of Rome it means that climatologically it was entirely different and in that African theater we emerged out of animal organization and into a world of language cognition ritual ceremony so forth and so on and it was a style of psychedelic shamanism complexed with an orgiastic religious style now the reason this is important this orgiastic style is because it makes it impossible to trace lines excuse me lines of male paternity women know who their children are because they see their children come out of their bodies but men couldn't know that and so all values were group values the tribe was as identified with true being as we now identify our ego so people were altruistic not in any holier-than-thou or pietistic way it's just simply how they were in the same way that the members of an anthill or altruistic I mean ants don't flee from a problem because they're trying to save their own necks they hurl themselves at the problem until it is solved because conservation of the group values is the most important thing well when but the female has built into her physiology a boundary dissolving experience in the form of the birth experience and in these African tribal societies you know it didn't happen once or twice in a woman's life it happened a dozen or twenty times so women by virtue of giving birth and by virtue of this experience of seeing another person come out of their body can never get so firmly embedded this notion of their inviolate and unique self so it's just biologically scripted into femaleness that several times in your life you're going to be melted down into this situation and it's it's it's you know a very deep imprinting in the absence of psychedelic plants or drugs a male can go from birth to the grave and never have this experience you know and millions of people do that and millions of people go from the birth to the grave without ever discovering the relativistic nature of the ego they entirely identify it with the self when in fact it isn't that at all when we were now the mystery in all of this is the fact that it's kind of reductionist to say that taking these psychedelic plants dissolves the ego because there has to be something then which rushes in to this now empty space where the ego previously held sway what rushes in to that liberated space is what I call the guy in mind that there is actually a hyper intelligent being on this planet or in this planet it perhaps is this planet but it is sentient it thinks it can communicate we are like atoms inside the body or cells inside the body of this enormous organism which is the cause of our religious obsessing the reason we're always running around looking for God Almighty is because we evolved on a planet inhabited by a super intelligence that we have lost contact with and so we deny its intelligence we at this point even deny its vitality I mean you know the Judeo-Christian stick is that nature is at to be at the service of man and you know this is a complete inversion of the idea that human beings should be the active hands of the guy in mind and when and this didn't happen for any there's no bad guy in this scenario it's simply that the climatological conditions which allowed this social mode that was characterized by nomadic pastoralism orgy and psychedelic shamanism was gradually replaced by because of drying of the African continent the psychedelic substances were no longer available and there was even an intermediary an intermediate phase where the psychedelic substance if it was the mushroom was preserved in honey so that the great festivals became further and further apart in time and the ego enters them like a tumor it begins to form in the personalities of human beings if you're engaging in psychedelic intoxication and orgy at every full moon there is no chance for the ego to get a hold I mean it's just an aberration that everybody jumps on is gotten rid of but if these ceremonies become yearly or less frequent then these funny notions get going in the more powerful males why shouldn't I control more females why shouldn't I have more of the food supply why shouldn't this area in fact be for me to hunt in alone you get all these concepts of mindness that arise out of the growth of this tumorous cancerous maladaptive self-defining because that it doesn't serve and we have committed ourselves to this thing so whole hog for the past five ten thousand years that now we're so deep into it that it's not clear we can ever extricated ourselves from it except and this is the raison d'etre for my career is we have to go back to the archaic solution which is and it can't be orgy that can't be the archaic solution that we implement because we're not a nomadic tribe of pastor lists only 70 or 80 human beings we're a global culture of 5 billion people if we tried to resuscitate lunar orgies we'd have a wave of social and sexually transmitted diseases that would probably finish us once and for all so the orgy thing is not the answer but the psychedelic option still exists it's still dissolves the ego and it still puts you in contact with viable group values so this is what we this is perhaps an answer and I don't advocate it because I think it's a sure thing I advocate it because I think it's the only game in town hell if if hortatory beating on people could have worked then we would have solved all our problems thousands of years ago because Buddha and Christ and all these other people they had the right idea
 It's just that ideas don't cut the mustard. It has to be an experience, a real experience, and a boundary-dissolving experience is so corrosive to all the institutions of dominator society that no religion in the West since Ur has been able to come to terms with the psychedelic experience because it mitigates male dominance, hierarchy, and all the other things that are the methods by which we do business. Why do you think that nature would have it that there would be this window of opportunity to develop an ego to begin with? Well it was that we had a chemically mediated symbiosis with the guy in mind and it wasn't a locked symbiosis like you get in lichens or something like that. It was a kind of flirtation with symbiosis. It was that we took these psychedelic plants and contacted this hyper-dimensional mind of nature and discovered that because it was hyper-dimensional, because it wasn't constrained in space and time the way we are, that it had useful information, very practical information. Where has the game gone? This is what shamans are good for, is to tell you where the game has gone. How will the weather be next year? Classical problem for shamans. Well how do they know this stuff? You see, shamanism is essentially going into a higher dimension to obtain information that then feeds back into the group destiny. Well how can these shamans know this stuff? How can they attain to this superhuman level of understanding? It's that they get in touch with a different kind of intelligence, an intelligence to whom where the game will be next year is as transparent as where the game was last year, because past and future don't exist for that intelligence. Our relationship to that intelligence was one of devotee to goddess or supplicant to mystery, but eventually the connection was broken and meanwhile the ego was arising and the ego is like a mirroring of this larger psychic function. In other words, the ego is our pathetic attempt to create God on our own. This was Julian Jaynes theory. He thought, you see, that up until as late as Homeric times, which is 800 B.C., that if you got into a tight spot and were about to be offed or something, miraculously a voice would appear, would come on, it would just turn on in your head and it would say, you should get out of there. And people thought this was a God, it was a God. But eventually they were able to assimilate this psychic function into the personality and then they said, well, that's not God talking, that's me, that's myself. And this is the idea where God is then located inside my body. And I take orders from this inner God that I call the ego. And if it is allowed to develop, and it's strange, it always develops along these patriarchal lines, you know. It brooks no babbling. It's not interested in argument. It knows what is to be done. And then the only time you get a problem is when you place one ego in contact with another. And then, of course, they go at it, hammer and tongs. But originally what we had was a symbiotic relationship with this guy in mind. And this is the mystery that haunts this planet, haunts our history, haunts our psychedelic experiences and our dreams. It's that there really is a controlling super intelligence that can be contacted through psychedelic drugs, presumably religious practice, when you see how long they've been making the claim. Although it must be a high noise signal when you do it that way, because they seem to get it always skewed off in some weird direction that then reinforces paternalistic institutions. But this is what all this goddess talk is about, is either we are becoming more sensitive to the presence of the guy in mind, or the guy in mind, under pressure of the approaching apocalyptic crisis, is beginning to raise its voice louder and louder and louder, so that now, you know, when you go into nature loaded, every rock, every tree, every stream is saying, awaken, awaken, come to focus, there's minutes to go, as William Burroughs likes to say, you know. So we have to connect up, and so we are, in a sense, the hands of this diffuse super mind that is spread through nature. And our presence as thinking, reflecting, culture building individuals, is not simply an amazing, but meaningless set of circumstances. Our presence as a global technical civilization signifies the onset of the final crisis. It's as though, you know, you watch a pond, and the surface is smooth, mirror smooth. Well then, the surface of the pond begins to churn. This is the signal that something huge is about to emerge out of the pond, and human history is that turbulence on the still surface of nature. Nature would never have allowed a phenomenon like human history to get going, were it not in response to a deeply felt planetary crisis that is approaching at ever accelerating speed. And I have enough faith in nature to believe that when the moment finally is upon us, we'll be ready. But the tools are being laid up right now. The ultimate tools, not the prototype tools. The bow and arrow, that was a prototype. The catapult, that was a prototype. The B-17, that was a prototype. But thermonuclear tipped intercontinental ballistic missiles, this is not the prototype. This is the actual instrument by which you could save a planet as well as destroy it, because you're at last dealing on the level of energies necessary to make those kinds of changes. And I think the evidence is all around us that the historical mode cannot persist. It can't. Just draw all the curves. Output of petroleum distillates, output of energy, population growth, proliferation of weapons. When you draw all of these curves, they can't be propagated 500 years into the future. Sometime in the next 50 years, you know, we're going to have to make or break what history was all about. And the arising of global culture, the arising of an integrated electronic awareness, high-speed computational machinery, tremendously powerful weapons, spacecraft, all of this stuff looks to me like the raw material for a salvational exercise. And notice that it's not only a way to save the planet. It's in a sense a way to save not only ourselves, but to save our ancestors as well. This, if we can act in a moment of great crisis to preserve the planet from ruination, we will redeem human history. It all makes sense. The pogroms, the migrations, the brutality, the stupidity. It was all toward a purpose. And then somehow those lives that were lost in those pogroms and invasions and migrations and so forth are given meaning. A meaning which they will totally not have if we simply blow the planet apart and wreck nature and ruin the oceans and blow off the oceans.
 atmosphere. Then it just looks like a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury that signifies nothing. So it's as though the meaning itself is in our hands. What shall we make of this? Is it just as James Joyce said, atoms and ifs? Or is there a plan, a process, a plot, and a role for us that will give us some dignity in this situation? Which otherwise, up to this point, as far as I can see, we totally lack. I mean, it's all very well to spend an afternoon wandering around the Louvre, but on the other hand, you know, spend the next day wandering around the slums of Calcutta and you just really have to wonder about what the human enterprise is about. Now I will read you this little quote from Moby Dick, which sort of gets to some of this. Are you all familiar with Moby Dick? Are any of you familiar with Moby Dick? You should be. I mean, this is the greatest work of prose ever written by an American, without contest, I think. I mean, I like to think that when human history is written, Americans will be remembered for two things. They went to the moon and they're the people who produced Moby Dick. I mean, this is our odyssey. This is our odyssey and our Iliad. Nobody's ever gone past it. Okay, there's a scene early on. You all know that it's a whale hunt, right? Okay, so there is a scene where the captain who is running this show and driving this thing, this hunt for this whale, to a truly apocalyptic conclusion, because for him this is no hunt for an animal. This is a confrontation with an alien god and he is determined to murder this thing because it, as he delicately puts it, dismasted him, meaning it bit off his leg and destroyed his sexual machinery. And his first mate, who functions as Christian right reason, wimpy little Starbuck, says, Vengeance on a dumb brute, cried Starbuck, that simply smoked thee from blindest instinct? Madness. To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemy. And Ahab says, Hark ye yet again, the little lower lair. All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event, in the living act, the undoubted deed, there some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the moldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man will strike, strike through the mask. How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall? To me the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there is not beyond, but tis enough. He tasks me, he heaps me. I see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinnowing it. That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate. And be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreck that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy. I would strike out the sun if it insulted me. For could it do that? Then could I do the other? Since there is ever a sort of fair play. And that was the point I wanted to make, about two points. Striking through the mask to achieve reality, and that we can do it. Because there is ever a sort of fair play. The field is level. The cards are not stacked against us. If we play our hand right, we can take the whole game. They wouldn't have it any other way. That's right. By the way, I'm getting into that book by Camille Paglia called Sexual Persona. And it's definitely the read of the season. And I didn't realize the publication date is listed as September 1991. So it's hot. And I read the section on Moby Dick, which comes very close to the end. And if all of it's as good as that, then it's really something. I mean, I haven't, there hasn't been that much fun between the covers of one book since Marshall McLuhan wrote the Gutenberg Galaxy. So, you know, if you think of yourself as a feminist, an art historian, a literary critic, an egghead, all these things, she's just outrageous. I think we have to get her here as fast as possible. Because she's really freewheeling and makes a lot of people mad, which is always a good sign, I think. It's called Sexual Persona by Camille Paglia. Maybe some of you saw about a month ago in the Image magazine, which is the insert in the Sunday, there was an article about her and they put her on the cover. And she's very controversial and says lots of provocative things. And the article stressed her dumping on Derrida and Lucan and Foucault and that whole crowd and saying, you know, all of them put together were not worth one page of William Burroughs, basically. And, you know, not that we care about this, but in academia this is big news because they're in awe of all those people. I tried to read Derrida. I couldn't make head nor tails of it. It just seemed to me like anti-thought. All of this is inspired by a number of papers that have recently been called to my attention. If I can get this the way I want it. And one of them is called, and I recommend it to your attention, it appeared in the June 1989 issue of Zygon. And it's called The Omega Point as Eschaton Answers to Pannenberg's Questions for Scientists. And this is, it's by Frank Tipler. And this is a very interesting article which tries to argue for the reality of Christian eschatological hermeneutics in the light of information theory. And actually makes a number of points that I thought I would be alone in making for my entire life. And now I see that I'm actually an infant in this department. And that these people have thought more deeply and more widely and with a more stunning commitment to radical ideas than I could have even conceived of. I mean, it's humbling stuff. I mean, they're talking here about computer strategies to resurrect the dead, not some of the dead, all of the dead. And a number of ideas that I confess were completely alien and exciting to me. And I also have a correspondence between Frank Tipler and Hans Moravec, the author of this little thing I just read you. And a paper by Moravec that apparently has not yet been published called Time Travel and Computing. And time travel is sort of what I wanted to talk about this evening from a certain peculiar perspective. One of the ideas that I've had to embed in my system fairly uncomfortably, because I think of myself basically as a skeptic and a rationalist, is the idea that the world is on the brink of a tremendous transformation. A transformation on a scale such that it can really only be compared to the events which created the universe in the first place. This is what ties this series of notions to Christian eschatology, because the unique preoccupation of Western religion, whether it be Judaism, Islam, or Christianity, is this weird insistence on the end of the world, the collapse of reality.
 as we know it, you don't get this in Eastern thinking. As you all probably know, Hinduism is a theory of what is essentially a steady state. There are cycles of outpouring of phenomena and then regressive cycles when everything recondenses. But the universe is basically thought to be eternal. And this then poses no problem for rational expectation because it's very easy to imagine an eternal universe. In Christianity, to preserve the rationality of expectation, the eschatological event, I guess I should explain that term, all these ESCH words, eschaton, eschatological, so forth and so on, mean we're referencing the final things. The branch of theology that is called eschatology is the study of the final things, the end of the world. And the way Christianity has handled it to preserve rationality, at least superficially, is by setting it far, far in the future. Then it doesn't irritate or demand a great deal of thought and consideration. My notion has, against my own intellectual gravity, has pushed me toward the conclusion that it is near, which puts me in the same category as all those people in cartoons carrying signs which say, you know, repent for the end is near. And it's the thing, I mean, I feel, I don't know, shy, I don't know if I have the decency to feel shy, but I feel always reluctant to talk about it because it is the most counterintuitive position in the system that I've tried to elaborate. Because not only do I think it's near, but I think that we can say when it is, and just so you aren't kept hanging in suspense. Tomorrow at 8.30. Close, close. December 22nd, 2012, at dawn, Eastern Standard Time, the universe will roll up like one of those blinds, you know. It will just roll up. The stars will fall from heaven. Reality as we know it will completely disappear to be replaced by something else. Why would anyone think such a thing? I mean, what set of rational premises could lead to such an irrational notion? Well, I have this idea that there is a counterentropic principle built into the universe that has not been described by science at all. It may have been noticed, but never in its inclusive nature. And I call this anti-entropic principle novelty. Novelty has been increasing since the very first moments of the birth of the universe. Whether you subscribe to the orthodox cosmology of a Big Bang, which I would like to sit on the fence about, it seems to me, I mean, you may think my notion is unlikely, but you should remind yourself that what science believes is that the universe sprang from nothing in a single instant, from an area whose diameter was less than that of the electron. It seems to me this is almost like the limiting case for the incredible. I mean, if you could believe that, what would you resist believing? I mean, if you believe that, you may be interested in a large bridge over the Hudson River that my family has had for generations and that we're willing to sell you for a dollar. But this is what science believes. This is what most scientists believe, although in all fairness, in the last five years, this has gotten more shaky. Not everybody now believes in the Big Bang. Well, what I would like to substitute for the Big Bang is what I call the Big Surprise. And the Big Surprise doesn't come at the beginning of the universe. It comes at the end of the universe. Which seems to me, you know, if you want to, the battle of the singularities, orthodox science says the entire universe sprang from a tiny area in a single instant. The notion that, I mean, it sprang from pure nothingness. It sprang from a point-like dimension that was, so far as we can tell, utterly without any quality whatsoever. This seems to me the least likely environment in which to seek a singularity. I mean, how can we imagine, unless we call upon God Almighty, a perturbation in a flawless nothingness that would usher into, you know, 10 high 47 particles of many types streaming outward, symmetry breaks, so forth and so on. It seems to me that all cosmological myths require a singularity of some sort. But some singularities are more likely than others. And so, in my notion, and I call it my notion because so many people have told me I'm completely welcome to it. In my notion, the place to look for a singularity is in the most complicated circumstances imaginable. Not an un-flawed emptiness, but a world where you have atomic chemistry, polymer chemistry, organic chemistry, advanced animals and plants, languages, cultures, technologies, information coding and regurgitation systems. In other words, the more complexity that you can pile into a situation, the more likely you're going to get what is called an emergent property or a singularity or the big surprise. And so, as I look back at the history of the universe, over any scale you care to name, the last 5 years, the last 500 years, the last 500 million years, the last 5 billion years, there is a generality which seems to hold, which is complexity, once come into existence, is retained and folded back into the interstices of being to produce yet more complexity. This is linked, and at least appears linked, to the cooling of the universe. At the Big Bang, the temperature of the universe was trillions of degrees and there was no... there wasn't even atomic chemistry. There was just a plasma of electrons. And then, after some time measured in nanoseconds, the temperature of the universe fell sufficiently so that stable orbits could be established around atomic nuclei and then you have the emergence of simple inorganic chemistry. Well then, after a further fall in temperature and a much longer period of time, you get the thermal disruption of chemical bonds falls below the limit where you can get complex molecular structures and then a whole new set of emergent properties building on the levels which proceeded until finally you get the birth of stars and that is basically huge lumps of condensed hydrogen, the simplest of all elements. The hydrogen aggregates into stars in such amounts...
 that tremendous pressures are set up at the center of these hydrogen masses, sufficient pressures for fusion to begin to take place, and fusion cooks out iron and other heavy elements, including carbon, and carbon then becomes the key to the next level of emergent complexity, and from there to us it's only a series of these declensions. But what's interesting about these declensions into complexity is that each phase happens more quickly than the phase that preceded it, so that the... and we actually are not peripheral to this process. We're at the center of this mandala in several... by several different ways of thinking about it. The most convincing, I suppose, is that the density of connections in the human cerebral cortex makes the human cerebral cortex, without contest, the most densely ramified material in the universe. We carry within ourselves, then, the most complex organization that has been laid on to the material universe, and it seems to me this is a strong argument that we are at the cutting edge of this process of emergent novelty. Now, up until a million years or so ago, we were just one more animal wandering around on this planet, albeit a sort of weird animal, bipedalism, binocular vision, complex pack signaling, but on the other hand, wolves and dogs and ants have complex pack signaling. But then we began to elaborate. Notice that up to that point, the most sophisticated information storage system that novelty had evolved was genetic storage, storage in long polymerized molecules that templated other molecules to reproduce themselves. Well, with the emergence of human language, you get what is called epigenetic storage and conveyance of information in poetry, dance, ritual of all sorts, artistic endeavors of all sorts. This is the unique domain of human beings, and it represents a vast acceleration in the rate at which this kind of informational business can be transduced. So it flows forward, and then about 12,000 years ago, we really get going by building cities, beginning to notch wood with our observations of lunar cycles and stuff like that, and then you know the rest of the story. I mean, it's just a jump from, as I said the other night, chipping flint off a core to hurling an instrument outside the solar system so that it can look back at our planetary system. An elf told me that... Now, there's a fine thing for a scientist to say. An elf told me that time travel is possible, but it is constrained in ways which are not normally part of our expectation of time travel. The way in which it's constrained is once time travel is discovered, you can travel as far into the future as you wish, but you can't travel into the past any further than the moment of the invention of the first time machine. The reason for this is that before the invention of the first time machine, there were no time machines, and how can you take a time machine into a domain where there aren't any? You see, it's just to preserve logical consistency. That's like saying you can't drive a car where there hasn't been a car driven before. That's right, you can't take a car where there are no roads. When cars were first invented, the main objection to them was, what are you going to do with this thing? It can't go where a horse can go, so what good is it? So here is a fantasy scenario, which for a while I liked very much. It's that quantum physics and nanotechnology and all this malarkey is refined and focused toward the notion of building a time machine so that then on the morning of December 22, 2012, at the World Time Institute in the Amazon, the first time journey is about to be taken, and the whole world is watching on holographic television as the Lady Temponaut is strapped into the machinery that will hurl her centuries into the future. And there's a countdown, and a button is pushed, and off she goes. Now, most people's interest would be to follow this woman wherever she's going, but let's forget her for a moment. The point has been made, she disappears. We assume she went off into the future. But what happens right there, right then? It seems to me in the very next millisecond, thousands of time machines would begin arriving from the future simply because they had driven to the end of the road. They had come back in time to witness the first journey into the future. It's as though you could take your Piper Cub and fly it to Kitty Hawk, North Carolina in 1906 to see the Wright Flyer take off. You see? Are you all with me so far? Oh yeah, right. Now, there's a problem with this, which some of you I'm sure are thinking, I hope anyway, which is what's called the grandfather paradox, which is the old conundrum that haunts all time travel schemes, which is, if time travel were possible, you could go back in time and kill your own grandfather. Well, then you wouldn't exist. So then this sets up a logical impossibility. Either you exist or you don't exist. And some science fiction authors have assumed that somehow massive influxes of synchronicity would preserve your grandfather. You would approach him with your Saturday night special, but it would blow up in your hand, or it would ricochet off the St. Christopher medal he always wore, or something like that, because he cannot be killed by you, because in that case you wouldn't exist, in which case he couldn't be killed by you. And this troubled me for a long time then. What exactly would happen in this situation? Because according to Hans Moravec of the Robotics Institute of Carnegie Mellon University, time travel is no big deal. The first paragraph of this paper, the last few years have been good for time machines. Kip Thorne's renowned general relativity group at Caltech invented a new quantum gravitational approach to building a time gate, and an international collaboration gave a convincing rebuttal of the grandfather paradox arguments. Another respected group suggested time machines that exploit quantum mechanical time uncertainty. The technical requirements for these suggestions exceed our present capabilities, but each new approach seems less onerous than the last. There is hope yet that time travel will eventually become possible, even cheap. So I then saw another possibility, and this is the way we can fulfill the expectation of Christian hermeneutics, but not require the second coming of Christ or the intercession of God Almighty into history or all these other extreme unlikelihoods. And to understand it, we have to have...
 course to a physical model in a very simple realm of chemistry and physics, which is the Bernoulli gas laws. Some of you, I'm sure, are familiar with these, and they're very intuitive and easy to understand. We have a cylinder, and it contains a vacuum, and at one end of the cylinder we have a valve, and the valve is connected to a line which is connected to a tank of some inert gas, say nitrogen. So we open the valve to let the nitrogen rush into the cylinder that previously was a vacuum. Now, what happens inside that cylinder, I think, is intuitively obvious to all of us. The pressure equalizes over all points equally. In other words, you can't have 50 pounds of pressure at one end of the cylinder and 5 pounds of pressure at the other. We understand that in a gas, pressure distributes itself evenly in order to achieve equilibrium. Okay, hold that notion in your mind. Now think of our world in the late 1990s as a sphere or a cylinder of that sort, and think of cultures as gases at various pressures, and let's assign low pressures to the bare-assed folks in the Amazon and Eastern Indonesia, and let's assign high pressures to the folks in Manhattan and at Caltech and Cambridge and Los Angeles and London. Well, then we can predict, correctly in fact, what is happening sociologically on this planet. What is happening is that the high-tech cultures are totally overwhelming the traditional cultures. The values of Manhattan and Los Angeles are flooding everywhere, and in spite of the tiny lip service we give to shamanism and body painting, the truth of the matter is Amazon cultures are not really making a major contribution at this point to the evolution of high-tech, global, information-dense electronic culture. Okay, that's the second level of this Bernoulli metaphor. So now let's go back to the situation where we send the Lady Temponaut off into the future. I'm not familiar with how they overcame the Grandfather Paradox, so we'll pretend that the Grandfather Paradox is very strong. I want to say something about the Grandfather Paradox. Okay, I'm close to question time. Let me press forward relentlessly here, because the coffee is running out. I can feel it. The equilibrium density is dropping. Okay, so we send the Lady Temponaut off into the future, but now with what we know about the equalization of high cultures versus low in a temporal medium, what happens, from our point of view, is that the rest of the history of the universe happens instantly. That even if it's billions of years of human culture and downloading into machines and claiming star system after star system and so forth and so on, somehow that the state vector of all of those event systems collapses. I call this the God Whistle principle. It's that we can actually call God into history. We can summon the end state of human evolution to appear a millisecond after we successfully achieve the implementation of this technology of time travel in order to avoid all the paradoxes that would prevail if there was any extension to the post-time travel era beyond the moment of its inception. So this is a way of, in a sense, forcing the evolution of the universe, and it creates the phase transition of the eschaton and is, to my mind, a practical, it creates the basin of attraction within the domain of our own lives. Now, is there any kind of precedent for something like this, even metaphorically in our own experience? Well, it turns out yes, there is, in a kind of bizarre anecdote which should sober us considerably as we think about these things. When the first atomic weapon was built by the Manhattan Project in the desert of New Mexico, Fermi and Oppenheimer and all these people got together the night before the test at Trinity, and Fermi had a pad like this on which he had scrawled some equations, and he had reached the conclusion in the week before that they were not sure how high the temperature would go when they triggered this device, and Fermi had some back of the envelope calculations which caused him to believe that the nitrogen in the atmosphere of the planet would begin to burn if they tested this thing, and that they would in effect ignite the atmosphere of the planet, and the fireball would spread around the entire planet and destroy everything. And they spent half the night going over these things, and they finally decided that the information necessary to make the decision was not available, and so they said, well, hell, throw the switch, you know, at least it'll show those Japs and Germans that we mean business. And then, of course, the test was carried out, the nitrogen did not burn, and instead we were ushered into the glorious era of weapons of mass destruction. So let me see, I've got some notes here, I think I covered everything. What's interesting about this is that for the first time in this article by Frank Tipler called the Omega Pointes Eschaton, he seems, and this is why Paul is here, and I couldn't really get into it because it's crazy to repeat what you can't understand, but by an analysis and interpretation of quantum mechanics, Tipler reaches the conclusion that there is an omega point, and that it does represent the funneling together of all the what are called world lines, and he, for purposes of mental comfort, sets it far in the future, but in principle there is no reason to do that. Twelve or thirteen years ago the Swedish cosmologist Hans Alfvn wrote a wonderful little book called Worlds and Anti-Worlds, in which he made the suggestion that the entire universe is what's called a vacuum fluctuation, ex nihilo, literally out of nothingness. However, there's a caveat, which is this creation ex nihilo can only occur if what's called parity is conserved. Now what this means is that these particles which come into being out of nothingness must come into existence paired with their antiparticle, and so it comes into being, let's say, an electron and an anti-electron, and they divide on separate trajectories, and then they reconnect and collide with each other, and parity is conserved. In other words, nothing really happened. No laws of physics were violated because they annihilated each other. Now for a long time, a while, this was thought to be entirely a kind of a theoretical construct, but then it was noticed that the theoretical models of black holes, which we referred to a few days
 ago seemed to imply that no radiation could leave a black hole and yet certain kinds of black holes were observed to be giving off hard radiation in the form of x-rays and it was realized that what was happening was virtual vacuum fluctuations were taking place in the vicinity of the black hole and because one particle went one way and one the other the black hole interfered with the conservation of parity and one of the particles was being sucked into the black hole and the other particle was flying off into the ordinary universe and being seen by astronomers as hard radiation so the fact that this process goes on has now been confirmed well now an interesting thing about these vacuum fluctuations is that quantum physics places no upper limit on the size of a vacuum fluctuation what it says is that the smaller the vacuum fluctuation the fewer particles that are involved the more likely the vacuum fluctuation is and obviously from observing black holes we can see that very small vacuum fluctuations occur quite frequently well I'll then took all this and said well then is it not possible that the entire universe our entire universe is simply a very large vacuum fluctuation a vacuum fluctuation in involving something like 10 high 50 particles and they have poured into the manifold in which we find ourselves and an anti-matter universe invisible to us because it's in another dimension was born at the same time and so one universe went off into a higher dimensional manifold this way and another one went off in the other direction and what this sets us up for is the possibility allowed by this interpretation of quantum physics that the entire universe could disappear instantly not gradually you wouldn't see the stars going out but the because this is all happening in a hyperspace of some sort which treats this manifold as a point like entity so what you would have is just click and all particles in the universe would disappear and the original unflawed nothingness would be restored actually no there's a further caveat to all this which is all particles have their anti-matter antiparticle twin except except the photon the photon is this mysterious particle which is different from all other particles it either has no antiparticle or somehow it has its own antiparticle embedded within it so what would happen in the case of a universe which was a vacuum fluctuation which encountered its ghost image and conserved parity and cancelled all particles except photons is that you would suddenly have a universe made of nothing but light nothing but light and we then have to model the physics of a universe where the only kinds of particles that exist are light well it's interesting that all these human traditions of transcendentalism make a big deal about light I mean light is the metaphor for spirit and the supposition is that the rarefaction of matter and of the flesh releases us into a realm of light and I am not physicist enough by a long shot to say what the behavior of a universe made of light would be but I do know enough to say that if you or I were made of light our subjective experience of the universe would be ruled by relativistic physics and we would have the impression that we could go anywhere instantly and we would have the impression that the universe was aging around us at a tremendous rate because you see the time dilation of the general theory of relativity says that as you approach the speed of light time slows down now it's assumed that you can't reach the speed of light because as you approach the speed of light your mass asymptotically increases so that to push a single atom to the speed of light would require more energy than there is in the entire universe because this particle would have become so massive that there isn't enough energy to propel it but a photon never moves slower than the speed of light it never moves faster than the speed of light either so the photon if you were made of photons and you went from here to Zaneble Gnubi let's say a star in our galaxy with a wonderful name your impression of the travel time would be zero you wouldn't and and so again here is a way without invoking God Almighty where physics seems to lay into our hands metaphors for the anticipation of of the eschaton Paul do you want to say something at this point? It's fascinating when you're playing with physics. You know everything has to be conserved. It's not just parity in the vacuum fluctuation. I mean matter, antimatter, charge, whole parity is just one of the conservation, one of a dozen. Conservation has to be conserved in those phenomena and they're happening all the time from the point of view of physics. Inside our body there's trillions of these virtual reactions occurring all the time and they can be intercepted I mean you can you can have a gamma ray break into a particle and antiparticle and you can intercept them before they come back together again and that's that's how that's how the detective on photographic plates or cloud chambers but everything you say is right. One thing I don't think this this notion of the Big Bang I mean I'm not sure whether I subscribe to the Big Bang model but it's not so far-fetched because if if there was something in the universe then we'd have a real problem explaining how it got here. So the simplest thing to assume is there's nothing here. You mean that we are in a vacuum fluctuation? Well no, just that there's nothing here I mean that there was nothing before the Big Bang and there's nothing after. This sounds like Buddhism. That's right, the vacuum fluctuation includes everything, good and evil, male, female, the whole thing added together as a zero just like it always was. Well then what is the what are the complex appearances that impinge upon our senses and what are we then? Because we choose to pay attention to only half the situation but if we could if we will let ourselves be and experience the whole then it's all unified. It cancels. It all cancels to zero. Well this refers back to something you and I were talking about it at dinner. We all assume that there is one past and one future but it's not clear why we assume that. I mean think about it for a moment. We're all here gathered in this room sharing this moment but we all have different pasts. Not one of us has the past of another and so what we have in this room is a convergence of pasts and when this meeting is over we will go our separate ways into a variety of futures. So the assumption that there is one past and one future is just some kind of convenient mental bookkeeping. We could and we are tremendously under the spell of this illusion. I mean we worry about the future all the time. Well notice that you could just move to an island somewhere and get a brown-skinned girl and then you wouldn't have to worry about anybody else's future because you would have made your own future. We can step out of the assumption of a universal history in which we're trapped and I think realizing this is the beginning of a kind of liberation. Our assumptions are the edges of our worlds and this is one of our strongest assumptions. The assumptions that there is a past and
 and a future, and our destinies are all caught up in that, but actually you can, a word that rarely passes my lips, you can deconstruct that assumption, and then you're given back a whole different way of looking at the experience of being, which is empowering, because somehow when we are embedded in the future, we feel we have no control whatsoever, we're like corks in a raging river, but in fact that's a false model, I think. Anybody want to get in on this? Terrence? Yeah. Sometimes when I'm listening to you, I have sort of a troubling thought that I think Terrence hasn't done enough psychedelics, or I think that your teeth break in some way, and when you get onto some of your scientific tracks, and as you put it, you're a rationalist, I start thinking, why get lost? And I start thinking, I start referring to experiences I have had of being altered, where a lot of this seems incidental to the experience, one experience of eternity, which I know you've had, and how do you reckon with yourself sometimes, when you say doubt yourself, and think this is just my ego concocting things to make me feel good, et cetera, et cetera, whatever would be the worst case scenario for you. It's hard for me to express this sort of well, but there's something about the way that you often refer to what seems to be a scientific model that is very linear, even as you talk. Well, I would certainly agree that I haven't taken enough psychedelics. Reading these people, it seems like, I mean, I doubt these guys are real psychedelic heads, and they're much further out than I am. The real truth is, and I've said it many times, that the world is not only stranger than we suppose, it's stranger than we can suppose. And in a way, that's either permission to suppose anything you want, or to just stop supposing, you know? These things are models. Nowhere is it writ large that bipedal apes should be able to understand how the universe works. Still less likely is it written anywhere that Terence McKenna should be able to understand how the universe works. Were you here the other night when we talked about the black hole theory of enlightenment? It was two nights ago? I was here. Yeah. Well, that's the idea that the real truth can't be told. I'm very aware that all of this is just stuff to support me, to make a living, in other words, you know? That, in fact, what's really going on defies rational apprehension, I hope. I mean, I would hate to think, I would hate to think that we could understand what's going on. Nevertheless, there's something to be said for this modeling process. And I agree, I think I'm getting old. You can only push yourself so far. I mean, when I read one of these things today, and he was off on some tear, and I just realized, you know, it struck fear in my heart. And I said, Oh, my God! You know, and I actually did a mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the weirdest one of all? And it said, Hans Moravec is the weirdest one of all. I said, Shit! You know, what am I, you know, I should bring him here and sit at his feet. I don't know, am I talking about what you're talking about? Oh, good! I mean, I find a fantastic parallel between the psychedelic experience and physics. I mean, I haven't found anything in the psychedelic experience that would be any problem to relate to from the point of view of a physicist. And actually, I think that all this stuff in physics got out of the bag because of the psychedelic, you know, breakthroughs in the 60s. I mean, Krichof Capra and others had psychedelic experiences and then started to ferret it out from, I mean, in 1920s, people were puzzling about these things and having the spiritual crises and throwing away all of their assumptions about reality and having these types of breakthroughs. And then it got lost because we started to bag physics to use for the military. And it was only with an environment that opened up because of the psychedelics that it would come out. But I don't think that science, that the purpose of science is to understand reality. This may go to what you're saying. I think the purpose of science is to advance technology, which is a heresy. I don't think reality can be understood and that it's absolute hubris for science to, you know, cloak itself in the mantle of philosophy. All it's for is to make better toys, or if you're nuts, better weapons. And ultimately, there's not going to be any closure in the effort to understand. And I think that the real, the thing that you take away from psychedelics, finally, is that all models are provisional, that there is no truth. We talked at one point in here about Wittgenstein's phrase, true enough, true enough, true enough to get you to the gas station, true enough to get your taxes paid. But there'll be no closure on this stuff. We have to live in the light of the mystery. But I think we also said in here, you know, it's the death of conversation if we glorify the mystery too much, because then, you know, I'll be just like everybody else here and I'll announce that we're now going to have a meditation, which I've never done to you, I want to point out. Well, with that in mind, I wonder how you can project an end to eternity at a certain time. Well, I didn't mean to imply a nothingness beyond. It isn't like that. I think it's an everythingness, that when I talk about what I envision it as, is boundary dissolution. If all boundaries dissolve, then, you know, I am you, and you are me, and we are all together. It's an exfoliation of the human experience. I mean, the great boundaries are, you know, the small boundaries are man, woman, self, world, and then the big boundaries are life, death, past, future. All of these will be dissolved into something like William Blake's divine imagination, and we will become, you know, our grandest dreams. And so the whole challenge is to dream a dream worthy of that dimension. I mean, it's a very interesting exercise. I don't know if you've ever done it. God, it comes close to being a visualization, I'm sorry to notice. But have you ever played the game, what would I do if I could do anything? First of all, you have to wrap your mind around the concept, anything. What would I do if I could do anything? And I used to think about it in terms, for some reason for me it takes the form of an architectural fantasy. You know, first of all I just locate myself in the house featured in last month's Architectural Digest. Then from there I would begin to work it out. Well, if you could do anything within a few minutes of entering into that exercise, you're unrecognizable to yourself. I mean, you don't even have to exist in a forward-flowing kazooistry of three dimensions.
 can be a number of species, all possible sexes, you can be translocated at many points in time, you begin to realize that you are tremendously limited by your assumptions, and this is sort of what I imagine death is, it's release into the divine imagination, and if you're, you know, blown up in an airliner or something, then immediately after dying, you're just a dead person, but then you begin to unfold and test the boundaries, and you know, as James Joyce says in Finnegan's Wake, up in the end, prospector, you sprout all your worth and woof your wings, and that's just in the first 30 seconds that you woof your wings, and then you are able to assume, to divide your consciousness, to assume any form, to be any place, to know anything, anything recognizable as human, I think would quickly drop away or would just become a tiny and familiar touchstone that you would occasionally return to, to touch, and somehow the dying, which occurs to each one of us, that's the microcosm of the planetary and historical process that we're caught up in, it's the thing that we hate most of all, we fear it, we really get agitated when death is raised as an issue, James Joyce called it the grim reaper, a blessing in disguise, if you want to be phoenixed, come and be parked, meaning, you know, you have to die to fully exfoliate into this dimension, and sometimes I think, and I don't often say it to groups because I fear I'm misunderstood and I don't want people to go out of here depressed, but sometimes I think that what human history pushes for is the extermination of all life on the planet for the simple reason that we'll never be free till then, that we are in some kind of hell world, and we are locked in a world of matter and energy and space and time, and that it is not, you know, my God, this sounds like, you know, Southern Baptists, but we are living death at this moment, and that we must die in order to be born again, in other words, that somehow what we are has become trapped in a lower dimensional matrix, and our greatest delusion is to cling to this most tenaciously. Jorge Luis Borges, in one of his stories, has this idea that the species, any species is somehow not completed in eternity until the last member of that species dies, and it is interesting that if you think about biology, 95% of all species that have ever lived on this planet are extinct. This is what happens to species, is they go extinct, and yet, you know, we're driven to pursue immortality. It pains us greatly to imagine the death of all life on this planet, and particularly the death of our individual selves or our species, but the fact of the matter is we don't know what death is. I mean, one of the puzzling things about the DMT trance is, you know, these creatures made of light in the mind that are so different from us, but have such affection and love for us, they seem like relatives. They seem like, dare we whisper the word, they seem like ancestors, and yet, you know, we would rather believe that they were aliens from Zeta Reticuli or elves in a parallel continuum than apply Occam's razor to the phenomenon and say, since we are the only intelligent entities that we have ever contacted in this universe, these things which we contact in our minds in the center of the DMT flash, they must be human beings of some sort, but they don't look like human beings, but they love us so much and understand us so well. Well, is it possible that the kind of human being they are is a dead human being, that we're actually breaking through into an ecology of souls? I mean, if we say that the psychedelic experience is an experience of boundary dissolution, and if we say that DMT is the strongest of all psychedelics, then may it not be that it is dissolving the most resistant of all barriers, which is the barrier between the living and the dead, and that what you actually come into is the antechambers of eternity, for a brief glimpse. If you were to take that rap and properly translate it into Witoto or Muinani or something like that, and go to the Amazon and query those folks, they'd say, of course. I mean, your own merciliod tells you that shamanism depends on the spirit ancestors, and for all the credit we give shamanism, we've never actually come to grips with the possibility that shamans really do work with the spirit ancestors, that there really is an ecology of transmaterial human beings in a nearby continuum that can be approached by a boundary-dissolving drug. And it's because we, and certainly I, and certainly proven by this rap tonight, are obsessed with technological explanations of it, and how it's going to be the flying saucers, it's going to be the time machine, or the collapse of the quantum vector, or something like that. But because the forward thrust of our technology is toward immortality, I mean, that's what's gnawing at the back of our minds, and yet what may actually be coming toward us, orthogonal, meaning at right angles to the historical process, is the dissolving of the barrier between the living and the dead, which is so unsettling and mind-boggling to us that we'd take a flying saucer invasion any day over having that happen to us. And yet it's very, very late in the game. You know, human nature is going to have to undergo a radical, vertical translation of some sort if we are to avoid the extinction of ourselves and all life on the planet. Well, so then, you know, maybe that's what it was for. If we believe that we were always embedded in the machinery of nature, that we could never act outside the purposes of nature, then this must be what it's for. It's very interesting in embryology. I think most people think, you know, of a fetus in the womb. As you all know, we begin as very fish-like creatures in the womb, and then out of what are essentially little paddle mitts, the human hand appears. And I think most people think that the tissue retracts tightly and that the human being emerges. But if you've seen fetal stages in bottles in medical schools, what's actually going on is that cells die off. A massive amount of dying goes on in the womb in order that the human form may emerge out of the fetal form. The webbing between the fingers doesn't retract. Those cells die and are released into the amniotic fluid. The growth of the fetus involves the death of millions and millions and millions of cells. So we are born, we are, you could almost say, sculpted into life by the hand of death. I don't, I mean, I feel as nervous about all this as you must. But, you know, this is what we're here for, right? To stretch the envelope, yeah. Parents, I would like to go back to something that you said about the beings of light and the shamanic capacity to see and to interact with these beings, and they could be the ancestors.
 Thinking in terms of those individuals who refined their senses to being able to see more than the average ability to see and to be able to hear more than just the normal ability to hear, where there's a growing awareness of almost like inner penetrating planes of beings that are actually coexisting with us but we just can't hear them or see them because we haven't refined those senses enough, and the more psychically sensitive individuals have an increasing ability in a non-drug state to be aware. It's just they can see more and hear more, and I haven't heard you say that. Well, yeah. I mean, that's a very good point. The perfect example of it in terms of a cultural tradition is fairyland. Fairyland is the pre-Christian Celtic peoples believed that dead souls stayed around in the immediate vicinity, and that there were thousands of them all around, the accumulated dead, very much in the way that when you smoke DMT, then there are thousands of these things, and it raises the question, were they always there, or what's going on? St. Patrick, who brought Christianity to Ireland, found this belief, and also Anita makes the point about sensitivity. In Irish folklore, there's the idea that if you have the eye, you can see these things, and no drugs are required. It's a psychic ability, which the country Celtic people have sometimes claimed. When Patrick came to Ireland on his mission of conversion, he found this belief in fairyland so powerfully entrenched in these people that he invented purgatory. Purgatory was invented by St. Patrick to convert the Irish. And then when word was carried back to Rome that Patrick, who was this great bishop of the early church, that he had made this doctrinal concession to Celtic folk thinking, the Pope thought it was such a fine idea that they just wrote it into dogma. So purgatory, which as you all know is neither heaven nor hell, but a place where you expiate your sins for some amount of time before you pass on to heaven, is nothing less than a cleaned up version of fairyland written into Christian theology. Now, I don't know why the Celtic people would have, not a monopoly, but a firm grip on this. I mean, it may be their innate gloominess, their obsession with death, it's called the agenbeit of inwit. It's that we just chew on ourselves until we dissolve, but there was something about that character that set it up for perceiving these entities. Although in all traditions all over the world, if you dig deep enough, you can usually find a tradition of small people that live in the hills or under the hills, meaning graves, right, under the hills. And they are the ancestors, and the best that straight folklorists can tell is they have some weird law that as a people recedes into time, they shrink, which seems to me preposterous. I mean, I just don't understand that. I think that the evidence is pretty good that this is going on. The fact that DMT is a naturally occurring neurotransmitter is very suggestive. Actually, if you are truly dying, your brain will be flooded with DMT, and then you will see the ecology of souls waiting to receive you. I once questioned a very well-known Tibetan teacher about what was going on in DMT, and he said, yes, these are the lesser lights. He said, if you go further than that, you will break the thread of connection and be unable to return. And so, you know, I think this is the most challenging idea to us on the conscious and unconscious level, because we may, you know, I mean, I'm only speaking for myself, but it seems to me true that we really have, at a profound level, accepted the scientific lie that death is non-entity. And it gives us, it's a permanently weakening idea, because it makes us each such a finite being. I mean, it means that no matter what you do, eventually, you know, it will all end in the cold, cold ground. You know, always at my back, I hear time's winged chariot hurrying near. This coyness lady would be no crime, had we but whirled enough in time. The grave's a lovely private place, but none do there, I think, embrace. Well, maybe Andrew Marvel was wrong. Maybe there's more fun on the other side than you might wish to be congealed. Anybody, save me from myself. I'm wondering, I have the impression what comes to mind is a world that you project where everybody is schizophrenic, so that today I can be Napoleon, tomorrow Jesus, and I can meet somebody else who also believes that he is Napoleon, Jesus, Buddha, or whatever, and back and forth in time. I'm just wondering what kind of a place that's going to be. Well, I would buy into that. I mean, I think schizophrenia is the absence of cultural expectation, you know, in the most profound sense. I mean, the casuistry doesn't even apply. I mean, I speak, I consider myself schizophrenic, and I have observed schizophrenia in other members of my family close up in great detail. And what it is is it's simply the breakdown of casuistry, and then ordinary people imprisoned in the hallucination of culture, language, and linear time lock you up and put you away. Because you're reporting from outside the cultural envelope, and carrying information that terrifies, alarms, disturbs, and just, you drive other people crazy, is what it is. I'm talking now about process schizophrenia, which is the spectacular kind where you bring back information that is absolutely incommiserate with the models of your culture. No, I think it's been said that the world is becoming more schizophrenic. Well, that's just because they didn't have the word psychedelic. A psychedelic experience is essentially a kind of schizophrenia, and the people who in the early phase of psychedelic research, they wanted to call it a psychotomimetic, meaning it mimics psychosis. It doesn't mimic psychosis, it's a schizomimetic of some sort. Psychosis is a whole different pathology. But schizophrenia is simply a category for behavior and insight that the rest of society is unable to do anything with, I think. Yeah, no, that doesn't trouble me at all. I like talking about how I'm schizophrenic. Maybe this answers your criticism that I'm linear and running down and old. I can always go nuts. If all else fails, you can go bananas, I suppose. The schizophrenics return with the great aesthetic visions and the scientific breakthroughs and the poetic understandings. And it's almost as though they have been aided by the demon artificers.
 to their retinue, supernatural helpers, and a shaman would say, of course, allies, and I'm sure you all know the way in which schizophrenia and shamanism map together. I mean, our own Julian Silverman is the great pioneer in the one-to-one mapping of shamanism and schizophrenia, and years ago, when I was completely bananas, every time they would approach from three sides with nets, I had Julian's paper called Shamanism and Schizophrenia, and I could quote it chapter and verse and back them off, because what is called the initiatory crisis in shamanism is nothing more than a schizophrenic break with ordinary reality. The problem is, we freak out completely and rush to drug people and give them electroshock and tie them down and slap them around. Well, so then the unfolding of the process is interrupted, and it's as though you were to perform surgery on a fetus or something and then be amazed when it turns out a monstrosity, when if you would just have left it alone, for crying out loud, it was unfolding along its own creodes of morphological development. This is why people like R. D. Lange seem to me to be the ones who thought most deeply and correctly about schizophrenia. To become schizophrenic is a wonderful, wonderful opportunity. The trick is to make sure that you're nowhere where straight people can get at you. My schizophrenic episode occurred in the Amazon basin, and it was five days' march to just a mission. I've always felt that evading modern mental health care facilities saved my mind, absolutely. In a traditional society, it's supported. If someone shows signs because they're dreamy or they hallucinate or they're epileptic or something like that, then this is encouraged, and they're put under the care of shamans. Drugs are used to initiate the crisis in some cases. It's a cause for great rejoicing to have these personalities in the culture, because they're the antennas for the culture that are contacting the raw stuff of real being and transducing it down into cultural artifacts and institutions that then are useful. Anything else? Your idea of the end point makes perfect sense to me, and I don't think the grandfather paradox is an objection. It's not really a paradox. No, I don't think it's a paradox. It's a self-consistent universe. You're here, so you didn't kill your... If you killed your grandfather, you wouldn't be here to ask the question. I think that's the way to handle that. I think when we finally really understand time travel, we may find out that it's common as dirt and has been going on all around us in all kinds of physical processes. The human mind likes to make up stories, so if you came back and killed your grandfather and you're still here, then we'd have to make up a story, like somebody else got into your grandmother instead of your grandfather, or something like that. But since that isn't how it works... Well, it may be working that way. People disappear mysteriously, and all sorts of things happen, and we just fit them into a framework that makes sense to us. When we're in a realm of time travel, then maybe we'll have to reinterpret all that weird stuff that occurred in history. That's an excellent point, that all kinds of stuff goes on around us that may be in fact the collapse of paradoxical situations that we don't understand, like all these well-documented cases of spontaneous human combustion and stuff like that. Unless you just flat-out deny that this goes on, which is a kind of cop-out, I think, because it just means you don't believe large bodies of evidence. I mean, not everything weird that's claimed goes on, but on the other hand, I don't think God is a Republican. I think there's plenty of weird shit flying around, and as I said, nowhere is it writ that anthropoid apes should understand reality, and every culture that's ever existed has operated under the illusion that it understood 95% of reality, and that the other 5% would be delivered in the next 18 months. And from Egypt forward, they've been running around believing they had a perfect grip on things, and yet we look back at every society that preceded us with great smugness, at how naive they all were. Well, it never occurs to us then that maybe we're whistling in the dark, too, that the universe is stranger than you can suppose, and that that openness, that that perception imparts, is a great joy, a great blessing, because then you can live your life not in service to some fascistic metaphor, but in service to the living mystery, the fact that you're not going to understand it. It is not going to yield to logic or magic or any other technique that's been developed. It's bigger, you know, the novelist John Crowley has this wonderful aphorism, the further in you go, the bigger it gets, and I think this is true of most things. That's all, folks. We got through another one of these. Okay, thank you all for coming. I do not understand why you put up with this, but I appreciate it. I do appreciate it.

Terence McKenna @The Cyberdome (1991) ~ With Live German Translation

...hyperspace that's being created, you know, we had this chance 5,000 years ago when we started living in cities and we made all the wrong decisions. Hierarchical society, kingship, straight street plans, phonetic alphabets. This time I hope we're a little smarter and we can exalt magic, eroticism, the feminine, tribal values and an emphasis on the natural world and a de-emphasis on consumerism, thing worship, sexism and generalized stupidity. To keep the magic alive, which are the real spices of the human mind and not to make the mistakes we made in our human history 5,000 years ago on another civilization's trip, namely straight streets, real estate markets, hierarchical order, bureaucracies, political structures, but that when it comes to the phenomenon of cyberspace, that we ... So, you know, when you think about the cybernetic community, the psychedelic community, the cyberpunk community, it's at places like this that we gather and we self-select out of the rest of society. So what I think would be important to come out of an evening like this is that everybody take a good look at the people next to them and realize that somebody in this room has what you need and you have what somebody in this room needs. The spreading of the idea of cyberspace has two aspects. It's first of all informing people for whom all of this is new and completely unexpected, but then the other thing is deepening our own commitment to it. And that means more plant psychedelics, it means higher doses in silent darkness, it means a commitment and a courage to live out this way of life so that we can really take back our minds from the dominator culture, the linear paternalistic industrial capitalist culture and live the kind of erotic tribalism that we have our fondest memories of. ... ... What put me on to the connection between archaic shamanism and the new technology and the new music was when I went to the Amazon and spent time with the people down there who use a plant psychedelic called ayahuasca, I discovered that the people were singing what they called magical songs that were revealed to them under the intoxicating influence of this plant. But when they criticized the magical songs to each other, they treated them like painting or like sculpture, not like music. So someone would sing a song and then everyone would say, well, I liked the part with the blue stripes and the yellow dots, but I didn't like the part that was red with gray overlay. In other words, for them, sound was something that you see rather than hear. And my fantasy for virtual reality is to use it as a technology for objectifying language. Because you see, if we could see what we meant when we spoke, it would be a kind of telepathy. The method that we use to communicate now, small mouth noises moving through space as acoustical signals, and then the insulting of learned dictionaries, this is not a wide band of communication. And yet the whole world is held together by small mouth noises and their electronic transductions as radio, television, and so forth. So what the cyberpunk generation holds out to the rest of us is a new kind of communication, a communication that is like telepathy because it's seen with the eyes. And so then it dissolves boundaries and unites us back into this tribal community that we feel such a need for. What interests me about the connection between archaic shamanistic methods and the movement of cyberspace and cyberpunk is the connection to the way the Amazonian shamans perform their magical chants. They use a hallucinogenic plant tincture called ayahuasca which has the effect that they fall into very trance-like shamanic chants. And the way they speak about these chants is not based on the criticism of the sounds but is a description of the colors. There is a transfer of sounds to colors. And if the next morning after this ayahuasca trance people talk about how these magical chants were that they sang under the influence of the plant, then they don't say, yes, this song sounded good, or it's a little off a minor, but they say, I particularly liked the part where these yellow stars appeared on a purple background, but I found these parts with the red stripes on a yellow field less interesting. This is the way in which in the Amazon there is a synesthetic connection between auditory and visual channels. And our hope for the cyberpunk generation is that we find a way to restore this telepathic aesthetic, that we come to the language as it is now, in the form of small tonal mouthpieces that are pronounced here and then come into your ears through the air waves where they are interwoven with remembered lexicons and their meanings, in order to be translated back into meaning, which is an extremely complicated process. The hope of cyberpunk and cyberspace is to find a new form of visual synesthetic communication that enables us to see what we mean. I had some natural models in mind, so when I became interested in this whole problem of visual language, I went to nature to see if there was some natural system of communication that modeled this thing that I was interested in. And what I discovered was that in the octopus and in the squid, you have this form of psychedelic language that is already highly evolved. Because the octopus can change the colors and the texture of its surface, and because it lives in water and so can dance and fold and unfold parts of its body very quickly, it has essentially become the surface of its own mind. It is, in effect, a nervous system turned inside out, so that the thoughts of the octopus ripple across its surface. And, you know, the engineers who have designed cyberspace and virtual reality environments in California are fond of saying that you can be anything in virtual reality. Well, then it seems to me the thing you want to become is naked...
 linguistic intent, pure intent toward communication. And so by mapping the linguistic possibility onto a topological continuum and then processing it through computers, we actually create a true mirror for our own mind. And so to look upon this or to share it with other people is to participate in a true form of telepathy. And I think this true boundary-dissolving telepathy that unites us all into one family should be the goal of the cyberspatial community. If you explore these new dimensions of cyberspace, then it may be advisable to see if there are any natural models that already practice this kind of intended synaesthetic communication. That would definitely help the development if one could refer to such models. And surprisingly there is already a living being on this planet that practices telepathic synaesthesia. This is the squid. Its possibilities to create color cascades, mosaic structures and TV screens on its own skin are very inexhaustible. And the squid could be represented as an external nervous system. Everything that happens within this squid in terms of emotions or messages becomes visible in the form of colorful displays on its own skin. Und das Versprechen, das die Cyberspace-Technologie macht, geht ganz in eine hnliche Richtung, dass der Inhalt meiner Imagination sichtbar wird als eine dreidimensionale farbige Skulptur, die nicht weiter beschrieben oder umschrieben werden muss, sondern die direkt wahrgenommen werden kann als die Auenhaut meiner Imagination. Es wird immer gegen die technische Gemeinschaft gehalten, dass wir irgendwie ber die Werte des Natur- und der biologischen Welt hinausgegangen sind. Aber wenn man sich die Werkzeuge des Cyberspaces anschaut, dann sehen wir, dass sie integrierte Zirkuiten, Chips und elektronische Komponenten sind, die aus Gold, Platinum, Arsenik, Silber, Koppel, Silikon hergestellt werden. Das sind alles die Materialien der Erde. Und in einer Art und Weise organisieren wir das Rohmaterial der Erde, damit es die Dynamiken von Elektronen und Licht reflektieren kann, die durch fiberoptische Kabel fliegen. In der cybernetischen Revolution passiert eine Art Kompletion des Traums der Alchemie, dass das Geist mit Metall und Glas verbunden werden kann, und aus diesem Verbundenen von Geist und Materie eine neue Mglichkeit, eine neue evolutionre Option, eine Art Philosopher-Stein, eine Art Panacea am Ende der Zeit. Und das ist fr mich das, was die Computer und die virtuellen Technologien alle in Richtung bringen. Eine Art Mirroring unserer eigenen Seelen. Das, was die Agenda des Cyberspaces ist, ist eine Art Verwirklichung des Krpers, eine Art Verwirklichung der Seele, eine Art visuelle Manifestation der Welt, eine Art eterne, transdimensionale Objekte, und dann verwirklichen wir das Krper in eine fremde Objekte der menschlichen Fantasie. Ich meine, das ist die Idee, diese Realitt hinter dem Men zu machen und die Realitt des Cyberspaces, die Realitt vor dem Bildschirm zu machen, die Figur-Grund-Beziehung zu verwechseln und uns letztendlich in der Fantasie frei zu finden. Natrlich, wenn man diese technischen Mittel auseinander nimmt, kommt man auf Silizium, Kohlenstoffverbindungen, Polymere, Kupfer, Nickel, Eisen, verschiedene Substanzen dieser Erde sind. Und was letztlich in der technologischen Revolution geschieht, ist, dass diese irdischen Stoffe auf eine Weise zusammengefgt werden, dass sie eine eigene Intelligenz hervorbringen oder dass sie in ihrem Zusammenwirken eine Rckkopplung mit der irdischen Intelligenz bilden, die es vorher noch nicht gegeben hat. Und was die Cyberspace-Technologie verspricht, ist ein alchemistischer Traum, nmlich eine Verbindung zu schaffen zwischen Geist und Materie in der Weise, dass die Seele oder die Kraft der Imagination nach auen gekehrt wird und dass der Krper mehr nach innen gekehrt wird und dass die Beziehungen zwischen Keyboard und Vorstellungsvermgen durchlssig werden. Ich sehe Mnner und Frauen, die in einem natrlichen Umfeld leben, nackt, glcklich, in Frieden. Und wenn diese Menschen ihre Augen in diesem natrlichen Umfeld schlieen, sehen sie Mens, die sich in dem menschlichen Raum befinden. Und diese Mens sind die Art, wie man sich in eine Interface befindet, die in einem dreidimensionalen Raum versteckt ist, die aber nichts mehr als ein Hard-Wiring ist, ein Downloading in die Hardware, der Unbewusstsein, der trotzdem existiert. Was wir tun, ist, dass die menschliche Ingenieur-Mentalitt immer weiter folgt und Hard-Wiring macht, was das Tier-Krper immer in sich hat. Die Zukunft ist also eine Zukunft von Ultra-Technologie in einer Dimension, die von dem Ordentlichen Welt ausgetauscht wird. Das Ordentliche Welt, das natrliche Welt, wird wie ein Botanisches Garten oder ein natrliches Prservieren gestaltet und dann wird die menschliche Ingenieur-Mentalitt, die eine titanische Promethean-Kraft ist, die in unserer Spezies frei ist, sie ist in einer virtuellen Realitt frei, um alle Gste der Ingenieur-Mentalitt zu kreieren, um die stundenlangen Gebude zu kreieren, in allen Architektural-Stylen, um die Archologie und Visionen-Spaen zu kreieren, die die Vorstellung der Fantasie sind. Unsere menschliche Kraft, die Imagerie zu projizieren, ist so stark geworden, dass jetzt wirklich unsere einzige Option ist, mit dem Planeten zu brechen und in einen kulturellen Raum zu gehen, der von unseren Trumen und unseren Maschinen definiert ist. Und das ist in der Tat, was wir tun, und ihr seid viele von den Menschen, die das tun. Was wir tun, ist, dass wir unsere Gedanken zurcknehmen. Das ist mehr als ein politischer Slogan. Wir nehmen unsere Gedanken zurck von Reduktionismus, von Materialismus, von Wissenschaft, von all diesen Intellektuellen-Philosophien, die den Knstler verletzt haben und die Knstler irgendwie zu anderen Machten in der Gesellschaft verletzt haben. In der cyberdelikten Zukunft werden Knstler regieren, weil die Welt von Kunst gemacht wird. Grne Wiesen, lchelnde Menschen, die nackt in ihren Hhlen hausen und sich das Leben gut sein lassen, in der herkmmlichen dreidimensionalen Realitt. Aber sobald diese Menschen ihre Augen schlieen, werden also unendliche Menleisten von Optionen und Werkzeugksten erscheinen auf ihrem inneren Auge, die es ihnen ermglicht, psychedelische, imaginative Optionen zu erleben mit der gleichen Wirklichkeit und der gleichen Realittsdichte wie diese dreidimensionale Realitt. Und mit ihren Krpern auf dem gesunden Gras liegend, knnen sie hinter geschlossenen Augen in unendliche Rume vordringen und sich in alle Mglichkeiten,
 mglichen Situationen und Gesellschaftsformen hineindenken, die von den jetzigen Gesellschaften so weit entfernt sind, wie wir von den Steinzeithhlen. Und diese Mglichkeiten sind in der Evolution dieser Technik enthalten und wir knnen uns gegenseitig Mut machen oder uns dagegen wehren, aber wir knnen uns auf diese Schienen einschwren und in Gesellschaften oder Gemeinschaften wie diesen die Wege dorthin erkunden. Yes, you see, what we're doing is invoking a kind of collective mind. It's a political project that has been the dream of civilization for as long as there has been civilization and it actually is within the power of this generation to create this kind of new definition of humanness where all the shit and horror of the last 5000 years of human history can somehow be reclaimed or made to have meaning by the application of technology toward the reflection of the human soul. Und der Versuch, der dahinter steht, ist eigentlich ein sehr alter Traum der Menschen, nmlich sich ihren eigenen Geist zurckzugewinnen und das Territorium, was von Brokraten und Politikern und Zivilisationen, bei denen alles durch Horror und Shit gegangen ist, dieses belegte Territorium der eigenen Trume und der eigenen Imagination wieder fr sich selbst zu reklamieren. Und dieses, da war noch irgendwas, das habe ich inzwischen vergessen, wie es weiter ging, aber es ging in dieser Art weiter, dass die Mglichkeiten, dieses zu einer bewohnbaren Welt zu machen. Wenn man die natrliche psychedelische Sicht in diese Lge fhrt, dann liegen endlose Rume von aliener und unvorhersehbarer Schnheit vor sich. Und das ist wirklich das, wofr Menschen geschaffen wurden. Ich meine, wir sind die Information generierende, Kunstwerkschaftliche Kreatur. All unsere hheren Aktivitten, Tanz, Malerei, Musik, Poetie, menschliche Beziehungen, all diese Dinge haben den Charakter von Kunst. Und so liegt die Zukunft in der Realisierung von Schnheit, in dem wir es immer mehr erklren knnen. Das Teilen unserer Trume, indem wir nicht nur Waffen, sondern auch die Verschleiung von Grenzen zwischen Menschen und Nationen nutzen, sodass der echte biologische Fakt einer menschlichen Gemeinschaft gezeigt wird. Wenn wir das schaffen, werden wir die kulturelle Krise schnell voranbringen. Und wir werden durch Psychedelik und Massmedien und die Distribution und Kontrolle des Flusses der Informationen uns selbst und die Welt von Ruin retten knnen. Es liegt in den Hnden der hohen Technik-Gemeinschaften, die Informationen-Technologie entwickeln und kontrollieren. Denn wir haben das Geld, wir haben die Macht, jeden Wandel, den wir in der Welt wollen, zu machen. Aber wir mssen unsere Gefhle verndern. Und das bedeutet besseres Kunstwerk und mehr Psychedelik. Und das ist die Verantwortung, die auf euch liegt. Und ich bin mir sicher, dass ihr darauf aufgehoben seid. Vielen Dank. Wenn man mit diesem Reichtum der psychedelischen Vision nicht mit in diesen Cyberspace hineinluft, luft man Gefahr, auf eine narzissistische Selbstschlaufe hereinzufallen, in der eigentlich nur die eigenen Begrenztheiten wiedergespiegelt werden. Aber der unendliche Reichtum, der in der psychedelischen Vision liegt, die andersartige und auerirdische Schnheit dieser Vision, das knnte das Element und das Ingredient sein, das aus dem Cyberspace eine wirklich lohnende Alternative zu dieser Realitt ist, wo wir ab der Endmorne von technologischen Problemen sitzen, die dieses neue und visionre Input brauchen, damit wir uns ber die Runden kommen. Und es ist schn, in einer Gemeinschaft, in einer Gruppe zu sein, die sich mit diesen Themen beschftigt, weil das Licht in unserer Hand diese menschlichen Trume, die Welt als Kunstwerk und Imagination, zu bewirklichen. Schnen Dank.

Terence McKenna And Nick Herbert In Conversation About Time Travel - 1998

Here we are. Backstage. Muscle X. Taito. Kurtz McKenna. That's Terrence Van Asken and Nick Berwick. You know Nick? Oh. You know Alpha? Yeah. Alpha Centauri. Oh, that's good. I'm going to show you... Yellow? Can I have a seat? Sunlight Star. In 1772. Hello. We're not monsters, shit! We're not monsters! Turn reality inside out. Make the inner worlds out of the outer air. We're not monsters. In fact, what do you think of this Anton Zellinger character? The Institute for Quantum Cryptography. The guy who's teleporting? Yeah. Kel-Tec has done them one better. Kel-Tec is teleporting macroscopic objects already. You saw this? It was in Science last month. Macroscopic objects meaning what, a molecule? No, not a molecule. Electron? No, a lot of light. Electron? Light. Light? A bunch of light. A bunch of light in a particular quantum state. Well, what do you make of this? Well, it's going to be a long way before we have teleportation. What if that weren't true? What weren't true? That it isn't a long way before we have teleportation. What if it were five meters down? The catch is not down to the light. They teleport your substance faster than light, but they need a slower than light signal to decode it. Because the information about what it is is running slower. Well, then where are you while they're waiting for the light speed information? You'll have to find out about that. Where's your mind? I don't know. So there is a catch. They can teleport something that could be turned into you once there's a certain code. But it means that within the solar system or the planetary surface, this is only of technical interest and the thing is like an operable miracle. At the moment. But remember, light speed subjectively is instantaneous. If you travel at light speed, it doesn't seem like anything is happening. So subjectively, this teleportation could be instantaneous. It would take four years. Someone watching you would see it take four years. For you, you would step into the teleportation booth and end up on Alpha Centauri. But you have to send a receiver again. You actually send a physical object, which is the issue. So you have the problem delivered all over again. Except you don't have to deliver biology to the star. You just have to deliver technology to the star. I remember in contact, all they sent was the blueprints. They sent us the blueprints and we were able to build it. But that's because they knew we were there. We can't assume that about Alpha Centauri. Well, I'm working on mental contact with those fuckers, you know. With your stellarator? No, no, no, the stellarator. That was a primitive thing to tell you about the stellarator. It's lovely. It's lovely, the stellarator. But some variant on the stellarator will work, Terrence, I swear. I believe you. Discuss the potential effects that Alpha Centauri's light and the energy connected with whatever it is was there. If there were a water-rich, oxygen world, I think it would incredibly focus the historical intent. I mean, the primate desire for open space would believe that it would be paradise. Everyone would believe it was paradise instantly. All of society would bend its will to go out there. Now, maybe there's a galactic, something like that, where people focus their minds and get in contact with other beings. If I focus my mind on, say, Sirius... Diagrams in silent darkness. No, no, I'm talking about some stellar object. But I'm open to chemical means. Quantum chemically, quantum mechanically mediated... Contact with extraterrestrials. Via submolecular... No, mental. We'll do the astral channel first, I think. The drug molecules, their structures are important. They are like antennas and transmitters. It's all a tinker toy world of essentially nanotechnological natural objects. I agree.

Terence McKenna Reads From 'Moby Dick'

Now, I will read you this little quote from Moby Dick, which sort of gets to some of this. Are you all familiar with Moby Dick? Are any of you familiar with Moby Dick? You should be. I mean, this is the greatest work of prose ever written by an American without contest, I think. I mean, I like to think that when human history is written, Americans will be remembered for two things. They went to the moon, and they're the people who produced Moby Dick. I mean, this is our odyssey. This is our odyssey and our Iliad. Nobody's ever gone past it. Okay, there's a scene early on. You all know that it's a whale hunt, right? Okay, so there is a scene where the captain, who is running this show and driving this thing, this hunt for this whale, to a truly apocalyptic conclusion, because for him, this is no hunt for an animal. This is a confrontation with an alien god, and he is determined to murder this thing because it, as he delicately puts it, dismasted him, meaning it bit off his leg and destroyed his sexual machinery. And his first mate, who functions as Christian right reason, wimpy little Starbuck, says, Vengeance on a dumb brute, cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from blindest instinct? Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing, then, Ahab, seems blasphemy. And Ahab says, Hark ye yet again, the little lower lair. All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event, in the living act, the undoubted deed, there some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the moldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man will strike, strike through the mask. How can the prisoner reach outside, except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there is not beyond. But tis enough. He tasks me, he heaps me. I see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinnewing it. That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate. And be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreck that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy. I would strike out the sun if it insulted me. For could it do that, then could I do the other, since there is ever a sort of fair play. And that was the point I wanted to make, about two points, striking through the mask to achieve reality, and that we can do it, because there is ever a sort of fair play. The field is level. The cards are not stacked against us. If we play our hand right, we can take the whole game. They wouldn't have it any other way. That's right.

Terence McKenna ~ Alchemy & The Hermetic Corpus ~ May 1991 ~ Workshop

Well, it is a small group and this was my intent. By focusing on the hermetic corpus and alchemy, I've just gotten tired of talking about psychedelic drugs and always saying the same things over and over again. Nevertheless, it's a challenge to go outside my own bailiwick. I mean, I've had an interest in hermeticism and alchemy since I was about 14 and read Jung's Psychology and Alchemy. And it opened for me the fact of the existence of this vast literature, a literature that is very little read or understood in the modern context. The Jungians have made much of it, but to their own purposes and perhaps not always with a complete fidelity to the intent of the tradition. We'll talk a lot about the Jungian approach, but there are other approaches even within the 20th century. I believe, since I don't have the catalogue, I'm not absolutely certain, but I believe the catalogue urged you to read Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition by Dame Frances Yates. And this is, though Frances Yates' scholarship is very controversial, I think to get an overview of the landscape, her book is probably the best single book between covers. It's not pleasing to some factions, and we can talk about that. I mean, we will probably discover within the group all the strains of alchemical illusion and delusion that have always driven this particular intellectual engine. But I thought to get one book that sort of covered the territory, that was a good one to start with. Well, then I found out it's very hard to get this book. I didn't realize that because it's been sitting on my shelf for years. Richard Bird found a reprint at the Bodhi Tree that I wasn't aware of this particular edition. So, though probably none of you brought it with you in a heavily underlined form, if after this weekend you want to try and get it, it is available. And if you can't get that edition, why, a good book search service can probably come up with the first edition, which is Rutledge Keegan Paul. I wouldn't hold a weekend like this simply to go over a body of ancient literature if I didn't think it had some efficacy or import for the modern dilemma. And some of you may know the song by the Grateful Dead in which the refrain is, we need a miracle every day. I think any reasonable person can conclude that the redemption of the world, if it's to be achieved, can only be achieved through magic. It's too late for science. It's too late for hortatory politics. Well, it's very interesting. I mean, every ancient literature has its apocalypsus. And in the hermetic literature, there is a prophecy. I think it's in book two, but that really doesn't matter. And the prophecy is that a day will come when men will no longer care for the earth. And at that day, the gods will depart and everything will be thrown into primal chaos. And this prophecy was very strongly in the minds of the strains of non-Christian thought that evolved at the close, the centuries of closure of the Roman Empire. When you look back into historical time, it's when you reach the first and second centuries after Christ that you reach a world whose psychology was very much like the psychology of our own time. It was a psychology of despair and exhaustion. This is because Greek science, which had evolved under the aegis of democracy and atomism and platonic metaphysics, had essentially come to a dead end in those centuries. We can debate the reasons why this happened. An obvious suggestion would be that it was because they failed to develop an experimental method. And so everything just dissolved into competing schools of philosophical speculation and a profound pessimism spread through the Hellenistic world. And out of that pessimism, and in the context of that kind of universal despair which attends the dissolution of great empires, a literature was created from the first to the fourth centuries after Christ, which we call the Hermetic Corpus, or in some cases, the Trismegistic Handbook. Now, this body of literature was misunderstood by later centuries, especially the Renaissance, because it was taken at face value and assumed to be at least contemporary with Moses, if not much older. So the Renaissance view of Hermeticism was based on a tragic misunderstanding of the true antiquity of this material. And there are people, hopefully none in this room, who still would have us believe that this literature antedates the Mosaic Law, that it is as old as dynastic Egypt. But this is an indefensible position from my point of view. In the early 16th century, a father and son, Isaac and Maric Casabon, showed through the new science of philology that this material was in fact late Hellenistic. Now, I've always said that I am not a classicist in the Viconian sense, in the sense that there is a certain strain of thought that always wants to believe that the oldest stuff is the best stuff. This is not the case to my mind. To my mind, what is amazing is how recent everything is. So I have no sympathy with the fans of Lost Atlantis or any of that kind of malarkey, because to me what is amazing is how it all is less than 10,000 years old. Anything older than 10,000 years puts us into the realm of an aceramic society relying on chipped flint for its primary technology. What the Hermetic Corpus is, is the most poetic and cleanly expressed outpouring of ancient knowledge that we possess, but it was reworked in the hands of these late Hellenistic peoples. And it is essentially a religion of the redemption of the earth through magic. It has great debt to a tradition called Sevillian, which means to me Manichaeanism. I'm sorry, Mandaeanism. And Mandaeanism was a kind of proto-Hellenistic gnosis that laid great stress on the power of life, zoa, bios. And in that sense it has a tremendously contemporary ring to it. We also are living in the twilight of a great empire. And I don't particularly mean the American empire. I mean the empire of European thinking created in the wake of the Protestant Reformation and the rise of modernism.
 industrialism, the empire in short of science. Science has exhausted itself and become mere technique. It's still able to perform its magical tricks, but it has no claim on a metaphysic with any meaning, because the program of rational understanding that was pursued by science has pushed so deeply into the phenomenon of nature that the internal contradictions of the method are now exposed for all to see. And in discussing alchemy especially, we will meet with the concept of the coincidencia oppositorum, the union of opposites. This is an idea that is completely alien to science. It's the idea that nothing can be understood unless it is simultaneously viewed as both being what it is and what it is not. And in alchemical symbolism we will meet again and again symbolic expression of the coincidencia oppositorum. It may be in the form of a hermaphrodite. It may be in the form of the union of Sol and Luna. It may be in the form of the union of mercury with lead or with sulfur. In other words, alchemical thinking is thinking that is always antithetical, always holds the possibility of by a mere shift of perspective its opposite premise will gain power and come into focus. I think it was John, when we went around the circle, mentioned his interest in shamanism. There's a wonderful book called The Forge and the Crucible by Mircea Leon, in which he shows that the shaman is the brother of the smith. The smith is the metallurgist, the worker in metals, and this is where alchemy has its roots. In a sense, alchemy is older than the trismegistic corpus, and then it is also given a new lease on life by the philosophical underpinnings which the corpus hermeticum provides it. Alchemy, the word alchemy, can be traced back to mean Egypt or a blackening, and in its earliest strata it probably refers to techniques of dyeing, meaning the coloring of cloth, and gilding of metals, and the forging and working of metal. I mean, we who take this for granted have no idea how mysterious and powerful this seemed to ancient people, and in fact it would seem so to us if we had anything to do with it. I mean, how many of us are welders or casters of metal? It's a magical process to take, for instance, cinnabar, a red soft ore, and by the mere act of heating it in a furnace it will sweat liquid mercury onto its surface. Well, we have unconsciously imbibed the ontology of science where we have mind firmly separated out from the world. We take this for granted. It's effortless because it's the ambiance of the civilization that we've been born into, but in an earlier age, and some writers would say a more naive age, but I wonder about that, but in an earlier age mind and matter were seen to be alloyed together throughout nature so that the sweating of mercury out of cinnabar is not a material process. It's a process in which the mind and the observations of the metal worker maintain an important role, and let's talk for a moment about mercury because the spirit Mercurius is almost the patron deity of alchemy. You all know what mercury looks like. It's a, at room temperature, a silvery liquid that flows. It's like a mirror. For the alchemists, and this is just a very short exercise in alchemical thinking, for the alchemists mercury was mind itself in a sense, and by tracing through the the steps by which they reached that conclusion, you can have a taste of what alchemical thinking was about. Mercury takes the form of its container. If I pour mercury into a cup, it takes the shape of the cup. If I pour it into a test tube, it takes the shape of the test tube. This taking the shape of its container is a quality of mind, and yet here it is present in a flowing silvery metal. The other thing is mercury is a reflecting surface. You never see mercury. What you see is the world that surrounds it, which is perfectly reflected in its surface like a moving mirror, you see, and then if you've ever, as a child, I mean I have no idea how toxic this process is, but I spent a lot of time as a child hounding my grandfather for his hearing aid batteries, which I would then smash with a hammer and get the mercury out and collect it in little bottles and carry it around with me. Well, the wonderful thing about mercury is when you pour it out on a surface and it beads up, then each bead of mercury becomes a little microcosm of the world, and yet the mercury flows back together into a unity. Well, as a child, you see, I didn't, I had not yet imbibed the assumptions and the ontology of science. I was functioning as an alchemist. For me, mercury was this fascinating magical substance onto which I could project the contents of my mind, and a child playing with mercury is an alchemist, hard at work, no doubt about it. Well, so then, this is a phenomenon in the physical world, and then mind is a phenomenon as in the Cartesian distinction, which is between the res extensa and the res virens. This is the great splitting of the world into two parts. I remember Al Huang once said to me, we were talking about the yin-yang symbol, and he said, you know, the interesting thing is not the yin or the yang, the interesting thing is the s-shaped surface which runs between them, and that s-shaped surface is a river of alchemical mercury. Now, where the alchemist saw this river of alchemical mercury is in the boundary between waking and sleeping. There is a place, not quite sleeping, not quite waking, and there, there flows this river of alchemical mercury, where you can project the contents of the unconscious and you can read it back to yourself. This kind of thinking is confounding to scientific thought, where the effort is always to fix everything into a given identity and a given set of behaviors. Now, the other hermetic perception that is well illustrated by just thinking for a moment about mercury is the notion, and this is central to all hermetic thinking, of the microcosm and the macrocosm, that somehow the great world, the whole of the cosmos, is reflected in the mystery of man, of man meaning men and women. It's reflected in the mystery of the human mind-body interface. So, for an alchemist, it makes perfect sense to extrapolate from these internals, what we call internal psychological processes, to external processes in the world. That distinction doesn't exist for, for the alchemist, and I tell you, the longer I live, the more convinced I am that this is just absolutely the truth.
 The myth of our society is the existential myth that we are cast into matter, that we are lost in a universe that has no meaning for us, that we must make our meaning. This is what Sartre and Kierkegaard, all those people are saying, that we must make our meaning. It reaches its most absurd expression in Sartre's statement that nature is mute. I mean, this is as far from alchemical thinking as you can possibly get, because for the alchemist, nature was a great book, an open book to be read by putting nature through processes which revealed not only its inner mechanics, but the inner mechanics of the artifacts, the person working upon the material, in other words, the alchemist. Well, in other contexts, I've talked about the importance of language and how our world is made of language. And part of the problem with understanding alchemy is that the language is slipping out of our reach. We are so completely imbued with the Cartesian categories of the res virens, the world of thought, and the res extensa, the world of three-dimensional space, and causality, and the conservation of matter and energy, and so forth, that in order to do more than carry out a kind of scholarship of alchemy, we have to create an alchemical language, or a field in which alchemical language can take place. Some of you may have been with me a couple of weeks ago in Malibu when Joan Halifax and I debated the roots of Buddhism, and I think Joan deserves great credit for saying that Buddhism would never have taken root in America were it not for the psychedelic phenomenon. Not that Buddhism is psychedelic. It, in fact, is fairly touchy about that. But Buddhism would have gotten nowhere in America had not psychedelics created a context for Buddhist language to take root. And I would wager that I would never have gotten to first base with proposing a weekend on alchemy at Esalen were it not understood that psychedelics have prepared people for the notion that mind and world can be poured together like mercury and sulfur, like the sulphic waters, to create a new kind of understanding. Because otherwise, modernity has fixed our minds in the categories of Cartesian rationalism. And so, I will not claim, and do not, in fact, think it's so, that there was anything overtly psychedelic in the sense of pharmacologically based about alchemy. When we look back through the alchemical literature, there's very little evidence that it was pharmacologically driven, only when you get to the very last adumbrations of the alchemical impulse in someone like Paracelsus do you get the use of opium. But it is interesting that the great drugs of modern society were accidentally discovered by alchemists in their researches. A distilled alcohol is a product of alchemical work. And then, as I mentioned, opium was very heavily used by the Paracelsan school. But what they possessed was an ability to liquefy their mental categories and then to project the contents of the mind onto these processes and read them back. Now, this is what made alchemy so fascinating to the Jungian school, because the Jungians were discovering the unconscious, and they realized before Jung's involvement with alchemy, the best material for psychotherapy to work upon was dreams and mythology. And these were the two poles of the data field that the discovery of the unconscious was working on. Well, then Jung had the prescience to realize that alchemy, which to that point, as the gentleman over here said, had been dismissed as a naive effort to turn base metals into gold. This is the first fiction that you have to absolutely purge from your mind. The only alchemists that ever tried to turn base metals into gold were charlatans, the so-called puffers, because they were called that not only for their exaggerated speech, but for their use of bellows to drive their fires. And alchemy has always had a core of true adepts and then a surround of misguided souls and outright con artists who were trying to change base metals into gold. Now, it's interesting that science in its naivete in the 20th century has actually completed the program of pseudo-alchemy. You can, if you have a sufficiently powerful nuclear reactor, change lead into gold. I mean, the cost is staggering. It has no economic importance whatsoever, but it can be done by bombarding gold with a sufficient amount of heavy particles, I mean, lead, you can change it into gold. But this is not what the original intent was. In fact, when we look at the history of 20th century science, we will see that in a way, it's a misunderstanding of what the alchemical goals were to be, and one by one, it has done these things that were stated goals of the alchemists, except that the alchemists always spoke in similes and in a secret control language that was symbolic. Okay, now, another point that was brought up was, in going around the circle, was the externalization of the soul. And what we're trying to do is, in this weekend, is study and talk about the idea of redeeming the world through magic, and how is this to be done? Well, the philosopher's stone is a complex of ideas that, no matter how you divide it, no matter how you slice it, it's very difficult to hold the pith essence of this concept. But what it really comes down to is the idea that spirit is somehow resident in matter in a very diffuse form, and that the goal of hermetic thinking and later alchemy is the concentration and redemption of this spirit, a focusing of it, a bringing of it together. This is an idea that was common in the Hellenistic world, not only to hermetic thinking, but also to Gnosticism. Gnosticism is the idea that somehow the pure, holy, real light of being was scattered through a universe of darkness and of darkness, saturnine power, and that the goal is by a process which we can call yogic, or alchemical, or meditative, or moral slash ethical, the light must be gathered and concentrated in the body, and then somehow released and redeemed. And all esoteric traditions, East and West, talk about the creation of this body of light. And we will not in this weekend talk very much about alchemy, non-Western alchemy, Taoist alchemy, and Vedic alchemy.
 But in those systems, too, the notion is about the creation of this vehicle of light. This is one metaphor for the externalization of the soul. The Philosopher's Stone is another, and I will challenge you to try to imagine what the achievement of the Philosopher's Stone would be like, because it's in trying to think that way that you begin to dissolve the categories of the Cartesian trap. And so imagine for a moment an object, a material, which can literally do anything. It can move across categorical boundaries with no difficulty whatsoever. So what do I mean? I mean that if you possessed the Philosopher's Stone, and you were hungry, you could eat it. If you needed to go somewhere, you could spread it out and sit on it, and it would take you there. If you needed a piece of information, it would become the equivalent of a computer screen, and it would tell you things. If you needed a companion, it would talk to you. In other words, if you needed to take a shower, you would hold it over your head and water would pour out of it. Now, you see, this is an impossibility. That's right. It's a coincidencia positorum. It is something which behaves like imagination and matter without ever doing damage to the ontological status of one or the other. Now, this sounds like pure pathology in the context of modern thinking because we expect things to stay still and be what they are and undergo the growth and degradation that is inimical to them. But no, the redemption of spirit and matter means the exteriorization of the human soul and the interiorization of the human body so that it is an image freely commanded in the imagination. Imagination. I think this is the first time I've used this word this evening. The imagination is central to the alchemical opus because it is literally a process which goes on in the realm of the imagination taken to be a physical dimension. And I think that we cannot understand the history that lies ahead of us unless we think in terms of a journey into the imagination. We have exhausted the world of three-dimensional space. We are polluting it. We are overpopulating it. We are using it up. Somehow the redemption of the human enterprise lies in the dimension of the imagination. And to do that, we have to transcend the categories that we inherit from a thousand years of science and Christianity and rationalism. And we have to re-empower and re-encounter the mind. And we can do this psychedelically, we can do it yogically, or we can do it alchemically and hermetically. Now there is present in the world at the moment, or at least I like to think so, an impulse which I have named the archaic revival. What happens is that whenever a society really gets in trouble, and you can use this in your own life, when you really get in trouble, what you should do is say, what did I believe in the last sane moment that I experienced? And then go back to that moment and act from it, even if you no longer believe it. Now in the Renaissance, this happened. The scholastic universe dissolved. New classes, new forms of wealth, new systems of navigation, new scientific tools made it impossible to maintain the fiction of the medieval cosmology. And there was a sense that the world was dissolving. Good alchemical word, dissolving. And in that moment, the movers and shakers of that civilization reached backwards in time to the last sane moment they had ever known, and they discovered that it was classical Greece. And they invented classicism in the 15th and 16th century. The texts which had lain in monasteries in Syria and Asia Minor, forgotten and untranslated for centuries, were brought to the Florentine Council by people like Gemistus Plato and others, and translated, and classicism was born. Its laws, its philosophy, its aesthetics. And we are the inheritors of that tradition. But it is now once again exhausted, and our cultural crisis is much greater. It is global, it is total, it involves every man, woman, and child on this planet, every bug, bird, and tree is caught up in the cultural crisis that we have engendered. Our ideas are exhausted, the ideas that we inherit out of Christianity and its half-brother science, or its bastard child science. So, what I'm suggesting is that an archaic revival needs to take place, and it seems to be well in hand in the form of the revival of goddess worship, and shamanism, and partnership. But notice that these things are old, 10,000 years or more old. But there was an unbroken thread that, however thinly drawn, persists right up to the present. So the idea of this weekend is to show the way back to the high magic of the late Paleolithic, to show that there were intellectual traditions, there were minority points of view that kept the faith, that never allowed it to die. And to my mind, this alchemical, hermetic, Gnostic, Egyptian, Chaldean thread is the thread. And if we unravel it with sufficient care and attention, then we can build a bridge from the otherwise nearly incomprehensible high magic of the late Paleolithic. We can get it as near to ourselves as John Dee, who died in 1604. We can discover that it's no further away from us than the beginning of the Thirty Years' War. And, you know, for my money, after that, it gets pretty mucked up. I mean, after Eliaphus Levy, who's already waffling, I'm not very interested in the occultism of the 17th, 18th, and 19th century. But it's not necessary, because scholarship gives us the Chaldean oracles, the Trismegistic hymns, the library at Nag Hammadi, and so forth and so on. So my impulse is to, in the most austere sense, repopularize, reintroduce this kind of thinking, so that people can live it out. And then, step by step, we can evolve our language and evolve our understanding to make our way back to the garden, back to Eden. It's occurred to me recently, you know, it's said that Christ opened the doors to Paradise. Yes, but he closed the doors to Eden. And Paradise is a very airy place, where everybody sits around on clouds, strumming their lyres. I think what we want to do is make our way back to the alchemical garden. That's where our roots are. That's where meaning is. Meaning lies in the confrontation of contradiction, the coincidencia appositorum. That's what we really feel. Not these rational schemas that are constantly beating us over the head with the thou shalts and thou shoulds, but rather a recovery of the real ambiguity of being, an ability to see ourselves as at once...
 powerful and weak noble and ignoble future oriented past facing we each need to become Janus faced and to incorporate into ourselves the banished contradictions of being that so haunt the Enterprise of science we can leave that behind and when we do we reclaim Authentic being and Authentic being make no mistake about it is what alchemical gold Really is that's what they're talking about authentic being So that's tonight Right now what? We're led. We're Saturn nine, and we'll talk about Saturn and Pluto and all of that. Yes, we Tomorrow we'll talk about the stages of the alchemical opus and though the stages are many and Multiferous it all begins in what is called the negredo the blackening the depths of the leaden Saturn nine chaotic fixed place and that's where we have been left by Science and Modernity and so forth and so on and that's where that's where the alchemist loves to begin that's where he then stokes he or she stokes the furnace and begins the dissolution at coagulation that leads to the appearance of the stone I'll show you some books and And this is you know by no means Exhaustive the literature of Hermeticism and alchemy is vast and I could have brought five or six books boxes of this size from my own library and This is a smattering. It doesn't mean what I show you is the best it simply tries to spread over a Over a large area. Oh someone put this here. This is a new novel That's just been published by Lindsay Clark called the chemical wedding and I see last week It was number 10 on the New York Times bestseller list, which is astonishing for such an obscure Subject it's a retelling of a famous incident in alchemy in the 19th century When a woman named Mary Alice Atwood who was Had a very very close Relationship to her father dr. South and the two of them worked together she on a text and he on a long poem and To make a long story short Eventually they decided to destroy both the poem and the book Feeling that they had said too much and had given the secret away at least that's one version So this is a fictionalized retelling of that incident intercut with a modern Cast of characters very clearly modeled on the poet Robert Graves So if you like to absorb your information in a fictionalized form This is a wonderful book John Borman the movie director Recently optioned this book the guy who made the emerald forest and Excalibur So we may have an alchemical movie downstream a year or two a number of Compendiums of alchemical texts have been published over the centuries And if you wish to study alchemy you have to obtain these if you're fortunate enough to read French You should read vestigiary and berthelot they collected alchemical texts into Encyclopedic size volumes, but unfortunately these have never really come into English One that did come into English is the museum hermeticum Amplificatum It's teatrum. I think which a e weight who some of you may know for his role in the golden dawn Collected there are about 40 alchemical texts and all the greats are in here lull Villanova Michael Meyer Basil Valentine Kramer Edward Kelly and so forth The place to begin I think is obviously with the question who is Hermes Trismegistus? What are we talking about here? I mean this sounds so incredibly exotic to people The Renaissance had the concept of what it called the presky Teologi and If my latin and greek irritates you you have to understand you're dealing with a boy from a coal mining town in, Colorado So I do mangle these things the presky Teologi were Orpheus Moses and primarily Hermes Trismegistus Hermes Trismegistus was the primary Source From the point of view of the renaissance of this whole mystery tradition and You recall from last night's lecture that this is based on a misunderstanding the renaissance believed that Hermes Trismegistus was older than Moses We know now thanks to Isaac and Marik Casa Bon to Philologists of the early 17th century That definitely the Hermetic corpus was composed between the first and second centuries after Christ the method of the Casa Bones was to examine the the philosophical language of the corpus Hermeticum and show that there were words and phrases there that were post platonic and Derivative from philosophers whose dates we have fully in hand Now if you go to an occult bookstore, you will find that to this day this error Persists there are people who still want to claim that this stuff is older than dynastic Egypt There are even books available. I was in Shambhala a week ago Claiming to teach you how to change lead into gold well from my point of view this just evokes a small and a small smile The old errors persist the puffers are still at it But what Hermes Trismegistus is is a character Who appears in many guises in these Hermetic dialogues the dialogue the hermetic hymns are usually couched in the form of dialogues between Hermes and his son Fawth and Fawth takes the role of the uninitiated on she knew who is sitting at the feet of the master and Fawth asks questions. What is the true nature of the world? What is the true nature of man and Hermes answers and the general form of these texts with exceptions because there are 20 of them is an intellectual dialogue which builds to an ecstatic revelation and then in the wake of the ecstatic Revelation there is a hymn of praise to to Hermes Trismegistus Trismegistus means thrice blessed and is sometimes called Hermes triplex to distinguish this Hermes from all the other Hermes of early middle and late Greek thinking Hermes is of course the messenger God the God of scribes the reason this ibis headed being holding a staff is embossed on the cover of each of these books is because this is how Hermes Trismegistus thought Hermes Was imagined he was associated with the scribe God of the Egyptian pantheon the two Distinguishing factors At least that stand out for me that I think you need to incorporate into your thinking about the Hermeticism two very important concepts the first is the divinity of human beings an extraordinarily radical idea in the context of late Hellenistic thinking we all operate on under the spell of the concept of the fall of man that man is an inferior being Errors were made in the Garden of Eden
 and that we are far, far from the nature of divinity. All magic, and all magic in the West is derivative from this tradition, takes the position that man is a divine being. Men and women are divine beings. The Corpus Hermeticum actually refers to man as God's brother, and this is a double-edged perception. It gives tremendous dignity to the human enterprise, but it also raises the possibility of the error of pride and hubris. In the Renaissance, Marcello Ficino boiled this notion down to the aphorism, man is the measure of all things, and you may notice that this is the position really of science, that man is the measure of all things, that it is up to us. We can decide the course of the cosmos. All magic stems from this position. This is why the church was so concerned to stamp out magic, because it assigns man an importance that the church would rather reserve to deity. So that's the first great division between Christian thinking and Hermetic thinking, an entirely different conception of what human beings are, and when we get into the text, I'll read you some of these passages. Now, the second distinguishing factor, and notice that this position on man empowers tremendous freedom. Man is the measure of all things. The second distinguishing factor in Hermeticism is the belief that we can control fate, that we can escape from cosmic fate. The late Hellenistic mindset was, and what you get in the Gnostics, is the belief that because of astrology, because of the stars, we are subject to control from these exterior forces. In most Gnostic thinking, the whole concern is to somehow evade what is called the Hemarmony, cosmic fate. And in the Gnostic systems, the only way it can be done is by ascending through the shells of cosmic ordering forces, the Archons, the planets, the planetary demons, so forth and so on, and then beyond the Hemarmony, which is actually thought of as a place in space that you burst through, you transcend fate. What the Hermetic thought is, is that these fates become personified as the Deccans, as the stellar demons, and then it is held that there is a magic, a magical system, which is possible where you can call these archangels to your side and work with them and not be subject to the inevitable working of the cosmic machinery. And this burst like a revelation over the late Hellenistic world, because there was such philosophical and emotional and political exhaustion that this comes, this is a counterpoise to the message of the New Testament, which is a similar message, you know, that you can be saved in the body, that you can escape the inevitable dissolution and degradation laid upon us by time. So these are the two distinguishing factors, the divinity of man and the possibility of using magic to evade the machinery of fate. So I want to read some of the Corpus Hermeticum to you, to give you the flavor of it, but before I do, I want to say something about the history of these texts. You're all familiar, more or less, I'm sure, with Apuleius's The Golden Ass, which is a novel of initiation that is late Roman. Apuleius also put together what is called the Asclepius, and the Asclepius is true Hermetic literature that was not lost. It was the only one that was available throughout the Dark and Middle Ages. All the rest was lying untranslated in Syrian monasteries until Gemistus Plato in 1490 brought these manuscripts to Florence, to the court of the Domenicis, and then the translation project began. Now the only other Hermetic material that was accessible throughout the High Gothic period was a book of magic called Picatrix, and the Picatrix was probably written in the 1200s, although this elicits screams of dissent from the burning-eyed faction. But reason dictates that we consider Picatrix 12th century, so only the Asclepius and the Picatrix represented this strain of thought before the 1460s, and the importance of Hermetic thinking can be seen by the fact that Gemistus Plato brought Plato to the Florentine Council as well as Hermes Trismegistus, and when Marcello Ficino sat down to do this translation work, Cosimo de' Medici said, Plato can wait. I'm getting old. You do the Hermetic corpus first. That's much more important. We'll sort out this Plato business in a few years. And so it was done, and it was completed in 1493, and in 1494 Cosimo died, so he never saw the translations of Plato, but felt that the Corpus Hermeticum was more important. Just I mention this to show you the importance that was attached to this stuff. Here is the one of the key passages on man's nature. This is from book one of the Corpus Hermeticum. But mind the father of all, he who is life and light gave birth to man, a being like to himself, and he took delight in man as being his own offspring, for man was very goodly to look on, bearing the likeness of his father. With good reason then did God take delight in man, for it was God's own form that God took delight in, and man and God delivered over to man all things that had been made. This is the basis of the Ficinian statement, man is the measure of all things. And man took station in the maker's sphere and observed the things made by his brother who was set over the region of fire. And having observed the maker's creation in the region of fire, he willed to make things for his own part also. And his father gave permission, having in himself all the working of the administrators. This is a reference to the angel hierarchy. And having in him, and the administrators took delight in him, and each of them gave him a share of his own nature. So man is the brother of God and a creature at home with the angels. This idea is echoed in the Asclepius, which you'll recall was available throughout the Middle Ages. The range of man is yet wider than that of the demons, meaning the angels. This term is, you know, transposable in hermetic thought. The individuals of the humankind are diverse and of many characters. They, like the demons, come from above and entering into fellowship with other individuals. They make for themselves many and intimate connections with almost all other kinds. And then the famous passage, man is a marvel then, Asclepius. Honor and reverence to such a being. Man takes on him the attributes of a god as though he were himself a god. And he is familiar with the demon kind, for he comes to know that he is sprung from the same source as they, and strong in the assurance of that in him which is divine. He scorns the merely human part of his own nature. How far
 more happily blended are the properties of man than those of other beings. He is linked to the gods in as much as there is in him a divinity akin to theirs. He scorns that part of his own being which makes him a thing of earth and all else with which he finds himself connected by heaven's ordering he binds to himself by the tie of his affection so this is a incredibly radical conception of what it means to be human so radical that it is unwelcome even in the present context notice the modern feeling of this stuff I mean this is not biblical rhetoric this is philosophical discourse as we know it and carry it out ourselves this is a passage on the adept and initiation now this is let me see who's speaking here Thoth speaks to Paimondas this is book one but tell me this too said I God said let the man who has mind in him recognize himself but have not all men mind and then Paimondas replies old man said mind to me speak not so I even mind come to those men who are holy and good and pure and merciful and my coming is a sucker to them and forthwith they recognize all things and win the father's grace by loving worship and give thanks to him praising and hemming him with hearts uplifted to him in filial affection again the reference to being God's brother in filial affection and before they give up the body to the death which is proper to it they loathe the bodily senses knowing what manner of work the senses do now this introduces the theme of asceticism that like excuse me like the Gnostics there is a in much of the hermetic literature a kind of horror of the earth a desire to ascend and to get away from it Scott makes the distinction between what he calls pessimistic Gnosis and optimistic Gnosis and within the 20 texts of the Corpus Hermeticum you get vacillation on this point in some cases the manic the Mandaean the Sabian tendency is there and the world soul is invoked and the whole of creation is seen as a living being involved in this soteriological process this process of salvational mechanics through magic in other texts this Gnostic horror of matter is very strongly stressed it's very clear that the the Hellenistic mind was ambivalent on this point even as we are ambivalent on this point I mean it's a real question are we here to be the caretakers of the earth or are we strangers in the universe and is our task to return to a forgotten and hidden home no trace of which can be found in the Saturnine world of matter it's very hard to have it both ways you're gonna have to sort of take a position on that and these people were forced into the same dilemma there's no middle ground between those two positions and and so that that dichotomy that conundrum haunted a lot of of hermetic thinking here is the hermetic creation myth this is book three paragraphs one through a few and you will see the comparison the similarities to the to the Christian creation myth but with extraordinary differences there was darkness in the deep and water without form and there was a subtle breath intelligent which permeated the things in chaos with divine power then when all was yet undistinguished and unwrought there was shed forth holy light and the elements came into being all things were divided one from another and the lighter things were parted off on high the fire being suspended aloft so that it rose unto the air and the heavier things sank down and sand was deposited beneath the watery substance and the dry land was separated out from the watery substance and became solid and the fiery substance was articulated with the gods therein and heaven appeared with its seven spheres and the gods visible in starry forms with all their constellations and heaven revolved and began to run its circling course riding upon the divine air and each God by his several power set forth that which he was bidden to put forth and there came forth four-footed beasts and creeping things and fishes and winged birds and grass and every flowering herb all having seed in them according to their diverse natures for they generated within themselves the seed by which their races should be renewed and then it goes on to describe the birth of man now this kind of thinking is what alchemy seized upon in its ambitions in a way one way of thinking about what alchemy came to attempt is the thinking went like this since man is God's brother the purpose of man is to intercede in time and it was believed that ores precious metals and things like this grew in the earth it was a thoroughgoing theory of evolution that reached right down into the organic realm so it was thought that gold deposits in the earth would actually replenish themselves over time and it's passages like this that give permission for that kind of thinking in line with that we're now in book four and remember the tone changes slightly from book to book they were after all written over a 300 year period by various people you must understand then that God is pre-existent and ever existence ever existent and that he alone made all things and created by his will the things that are and when the Creator had made the ordered universe he willed to set in order the earth also he willed to set in order the earth also and so he sent down man a mortal creature made in the image of an immortal being to be an embellishment of the divine body for it is man's function here it comes the purpose of man for according to book four for it is man's function to contemplate the works of God and for this purpose he was made that he might view the universe with wondering awe and come to know its maker man has this advantage over all other living beings that he possesses mind and speech now speech my son God imparted to all men but mind he did not impart to all not that he grudged it to any for the grudging temper does not start from heaven above but comes from being here below in the souls of those men who are devoid of mind this introduces the concept of the of an elect or a perfectee a hierarchy of human of human accomplishment and understanding and this is also basic to Gnosticism it's not for everyone they're saying it's for the pure of heart and then what pure of heart means depends on the school you're looking at you know for some it was mathematical accomplishment for others it was contact with the logos for others it was an ability to resist the temptations of the senses but there was always this sense of the higher and lower possibility within the human experience everybody with me so far this is at the opening of book 12 and this is a book with a heavy
 sensitivity, this sensitivity to life. Now this whole cosmos, and notice how this transcends even the Buddhist point of view, because in Buddhism plants have no soul. This is a tremendous failure in the Buddhist conception as far as I'm concerned. Okay, this is book 12. Now this whole cosmos, which is a great God and an image of him who is greater and is united with him and maintains its order in accordance with that will, is one mass of life and there is not anything in the cosmos nor has been through all time from the first foundation of the universe, neither in the whole nor among the several things contained in it, that is not alive. There is not and has never been and never will be in the cosmos anything that it is dead. For it was the Father's will that the cosmos, as long as it exists, should be a living being and therefore it must needs be a God also. How then, my son, could there be dead things in that which is a God, in that which is an image of the Father, in that which is one mass of life? Deafness is corruption and corruption is destruction. How then can any part of that which is incorruptible be corrupted or any part of that which is a God be destroyed? And there are other passages, this is a good one, this is book 18. For as the Son who nurtures all vegetation also gathers the first fruits of the produce with his rays as it were with mighty hands plucking the sweetest odors of the plants even so we too having received into our souls which are plants of heavenly origin the efflux of God's wisdom must in return use his service for all that springs up in us. Now this conception that the human soul is a plant is a unique idea. I don't know of another tradition. Those of you who were with us in Ojai, we heard Johannes Wilbur talk about how among the Amazon Indians, the Warao, the men actually marry trees. They actually take trees as their wives, a tree, and it is a man's job throughout his life to take care of this tree with the same tenderness and attention that he lavishes on a living wife. This is a more radical conception than that. This is the conception that the most important part of us is a plant. It reminds me of the joke that I occasionally make in these groups, the notion that animals are something invented by plants to carry them from place to place. Well according to this that's right on. So the sensitivity to the vegetative nature of the world is so great that it raises the plant to be the pith essence, the soul of man, the brother of God. So you see the valuation of the vegetative universe here is of an extremely radical type. Yes, Kanon. I was just going to ask, would it be that upper echelon, the section of humanity that was given the mind, was that predetermined at birth, or can someone develop a mind? No, it is not predetermined. It is something that is acquired through cultivation of a relationship to, in the hermetic language, noose, the higher mind and in the Gnostic language, logos, the informing spirit. But yes, no, the whole thrust, yes, and that nothing is predetermined in the hermetic system because through magic we can overcome the energies of cosmic fate. This is the great good news of hermeticism, that we are not subject to fate. We should probably talk a little about this logos concept. This is something which seems very alien to modern people unless they are psychedelically sophisticated. The logos was the sine qua non of Hellenistic religion, and what it was was an informing voice that spoke in your head or your heart, wherever you want to put it, and it told you the right way to live. You get this idea even in the later Old Testament, where it's said that the truth of the heart can be known, that it is no great dilemma to know good from evil. You simply inquire of your heart, is it good or evil, and you will discover a voice which will tell you. And all the great thinkers of this Greco-Hellenistic period sought and cultivated the logos. Plato had his demon, everyone sought the informing voice of the noose, that's what it's called in Neoplatonism, and then in hermeticism, I mean, and in hermeticism, and then in Gnosticism, the logos. Now for modern people, well no, for me, the only way I've ever had this experience is in the presence of psychedelic substances, and then it is just crystal clear, there is no ambiguity about it. Somehow it's possible for an informing voice to come into cognition that knows more than you do. It is a connection with the collective unconscious, I suppose, that is convivial, conversational, and just talks to you about the nature of being in the world, and the nature of your being in the world. It's puzzling to us because it seems so remote, I mean, for us a voice in the head or the heart is pathology, and you may know the famous story of, in the first century, some fishermen were off the shore of the island of Argos in the Mediterranean Sea, and they heard a great voice from the sky, and the voice said, Great Pan is dead, Great Pan is dead. Well, people like Lactantius and Eusebius, these patristic fathers, the people who built Christianity, who took the Gospels and turned it into a world religion, they took this annunciation from the sky of the death of Pan as the annunciation of the change of the aeon. In other words, by the aeon, I mean these 2,000 year, roughly 2,000 year periods, that are associated with the equinoctial procession. Do you all understand how this works? That over 26,000 years, the heliacal rising of the solsticeal sun slips slowly, slowly from one house to another, and around AD 100, I mean, there's argument because these things are never precise, but around AD 100, the age of Pisces began, and the previous aeon ceased, and the cosmic machinery, the great gears of the largest scale of the cosmic machinery, clicked past a certain point and into the age of Pisces, and was then taken as very fortuitous for Christianity, because Christ was associated with the sign of the fish and was seen as a Piscean movement. But I believe that it's entirely possible that the Logos at that moment, that rough moment in time, fell silent, and that it has been silent for 2,000 years, and what we have had then is the exegesis of text and, you know, noetic archaeology of the sort we're carrying on here, but that now, and a phenomenon as trivial and high-puncted as channeling, can be seen as the reawakening of the Logos, the long
 Piscean silence is ending and the spirit of noose is again moving in the world speaking in the minds of the adepts and the hierophants who have the techniques and the will to connect with this stuff I don't know how I got off on that but obviously this kind of literature can be seen as the last message from the fading logos the the last statements before the change of the aeon and rendered this control language very difficult and non-intuitive and somewhat incomprehensible it's Scott's translation of this word noose it simply means this universal permeating intelligence through asceticism and desire intent and then there are prescriptions we haven't gotten into this but you know they lived a life of purity although their definitions of purity very widely that's right that's right no this persists right up until well to this moment but for instance the quote I always love is from Thomas Hobbes Leviathan Thomas Hobbes you know was the great theoretician of modern government and social organization and he was basically a paranoid SOB and he says in the Leviathan he says man to man is like unto an errant beast and man to man is like unto a god and it's absolutely true you know our noblest aspirations and our most hideously dehumanizing activities take place in the context of our relationship to other people this is this is what the alchemists were trying to do you see they were trying to separate the gold from the dross they were trying to take the errant beast and when we look at alchemical art we will see dragons dogs pigs we will see the errant beasts and we will see the angelic beings that are trying to be separated out of our nature this is within each and every one of us man to man is like unto a god and man to man is like unto an errant beast well you raise an important point it further complicates the picture but it has it's how it was folks and that is the reference here is to neoplatonism which is a kind of parallel tradition to what we're talking about Plato had at least a couple of phases in the evolution of his thinking the young Plato is a rational thinker but the later Plato apparently after he fell under the influence of Pythagorean schools it becomes a full-blown mystic and then in the late Roman Empire now this is almost a thousand years after Plato we have to remember in our minds all these people get squeezed together like they could all have dinner together but you know Plotinus is as far from Plato as we are from King Canute so you have to bear in mind the scale of history but so nine hundred to a thousand years after Plato Byzantine school of philosophy arose around Porphyry Plotinus and Proclus as the major exponents and they worked with the late Plato and elaborated a beautiful mystical cosmology this is what I did a workshop here on a year ago and many of those ideas and terms parallel conceptually the stuff in the corpus Hermeticum and if you're of a certain intellectual bent you may find yourself more comfortable with the neoplatonists than with this this material tends to be emotional evocative poetic and while there's great poetry in Plotinus there's also very tight thinking that goes along with it and there are other traditions I mean I'm making it simple for you there was a whole tradition of what was called the Chaldean oracles and this was a collection of a hundred or more fragments all of which have were the great commentary of Eusebius in 30 volumes Iamblichus one of them that's all lost we don't have that material and it is in a way the most mysterious of these traditions because it just didn't survive and it may be that that the Chaldean oracles is the missing link to push this stuff back several centuries deeper into time because the Chaldean oracles may actually be pre-platonic there's considerable evidence of that but these are very arcane matters I mean you have to give yourself over to a lifetime of learning these languages and the philology of these languages to penetrate this stuff the Hermetic corpus was largely Alexandrian and there were also Christian Platonists in Alexandria there were certain centers Rome Byzantium Alexandria Heliopolis in Egypt was a cult site that was maintained for a very long time if you're interested in this stuff but you don't like to absorb it this way Flaubert of all people the Flaubert of Madame Bovary wrote an incredible novel called The Temptation of Saint Anthony and in which he describes a second century Alexandria in a fictionalized form and gives you a real flavor for the intellectual complexity of the Alexandrian world you see Christianity had not yet gelled it was many things so you not only have Gnostics of five or six schools Simonists Valentinians Basilideans and so forth but you also have Christians or a number of cults calling themselves Christians that were also in furious competition Dossetists, Montanists and later Nestorians there were gymnasophists from India people who were actually carrying yogic doctrines into the Mediterranean world plus you then have all the surviving cults of the older Egyptian strata the cults of Isis and Seville and Adonis and Dionysus and it just goes on and on I mean the richness of this intellectual world is very there's nothing comparable in our experience and it shows the passion with which people were trying to understand the dilemma of a dying world because this is what they were confronted with the intellectuals of the Empire could feel it all slipping through their hands and Flaubert gives a wonderful picture of this I mean Flaubert has a very romantic streak and he it's like smoking hashish to read this book I mean the attention to fabric and architecture and food and odor and and then because the subject matter is the temptation of st. Anthony it's an excuse to describe these temptations in all their sensual richness and erotic kinkiness and it's a it's a wonderful way to absorb this material yeah somebody else raised the point about the uniquism or in a neat group of people and if one considers society as you have in Alexandria or some of the blood centers the only people who really had access to this were people who first of all had money and correct and who were well-educated could read yeah yes you had to be able to read
 That's right, that's right. No, very definitely, what survives from a civilization is its literatures, and these literatures are usually the production of an elite. And we have to remember, you know, don't have any illusions about the Roman Empire. I mean, I always think of the wonderful description, I don't even know why it's there, but Boris Pasternak in Dr. Zhivago goes off on a rip about ancient Rome, and he describes it as a bargain basement on three floors. I mean, this was an empire that lived by human cruelty. It was on the backs of slaves that this airy intellectual speculation was based. I mean, it was a tremendously pluralistic society, but that pluralism was maintained by standing armies of enormous size and policies of occupation of enormous cruelty. I mean, because of our relationship to the Christian tradition, we're aware of such things as the zealot revolt of 69 and the reign of Herod Antiochus in Jerusalem and so forth and so on, but that was just one little corner of the empire, and in Armenia, in Gaul, in Spain, in North Africa, military governors were carrying out outrageous suppressions of native populations. I mean, it was not a pretty time to be alive, and what comes down to us then is the yearning to escape from that. No wonder these people saw the earth as a cesspool and a trap, because that's what it was for them, without doubt, and our own age is very similar. I mean, we do not have slavery, but we suffer under propaganda, mass manipulation of ideas, and the degradation and exploitation of the third world on a scale the Roman Empire couldn't even dream of, so there is a great affinity. If any of you are interested in this kind of thing, I highly recommend a book by Hans Jonas called The Phenomenon of Life. It's a book of philosophical essays, but there's one essay in there called Gnosticism and the Modern Temper, in which he shows that once you take Gnosticism and dump the angels and the star demons and all the colorful bric-a-brac of late Roman thinking, what you have is a thoroughgoing existentialism, completely compatible with Jean-Paul Sartre, Jean Genet, and the kind of intellectual despair that characterized the post-World War II generation in Europe. Heidegger. Heidegger is thoroughgoingly Gnostic in his intentionality. It's just that the language is modern and stripped of this magical thinking, and by being stripped of magical thinking, in a way, the modern recension of that state of mind is even more hopeless and disempowering. Fortunately, I think we're moving out of the shadow of that, but I'm 44 years old. I grew up reading those people, and it made my adolescence much harder than it needed to be. I mean, my God, there wasn't an iota of hope anywhere to be found. And that's why, for me, psychedelics broke over that intellectual world like a tidal wave of revelation. I mean, I quoted to you last night Jean-Paul Sartre's statement that nature is mute. Now I see this as an obscenity, almost, an intellectual crime against reason and intuition. It's the opposite of the Logos. It's the absolute antithesis of the Logos, and much of our world is ruled by men older than I am who are fully connected into that without any question, and they just think all the rest of this is namby-pamby ecological soft-heartedness or some sort. There is no openness to the power of bios, to the fact of a living cosmos. This is what Rupert Sheldrake is always trying to say. The reinvestiture of spirit into matter, the rebirth of the world soul, is a necessary concomitant to what we now understand about the real nature of the world. In a way, the theory of evolution, which was born in the 1850s, is the beginning of the turning of the tide, because even though the first hundred years of evolutionary theory was fantastically concerned to eliminate teleology, eliminate purpose, nevertheless, nobody ever understood that except the hardcore evolutionists. To everybody else, evolution meant ascent to higher form, and I once heard someone say, if it doesn't have to do with genes, it ain't evolution. Well, that's a tremendously limited view of what evolution is. I mean, the inorganic world is evolving, the organic world is evolving, and there the currency is genes, but also the social and intellectual world of human beings is evolving, and there the currency is not genes, but means. So that idea, it carries with it the implication of ascent to higher form, and correctly broadened and understood becomes permission for a return to optimism, and to the kind of hope that these folks were trying to articulate. It seems to me that mine is, if it is available through trial, then we're back in a separation. I thought if you don't, sometimes I do, and this is, to me, a false separation. Yes, you're right, but it's a separation necessary for philosophical discourse. That's why philosophical discourse is not the top of the mountain. Language itself is the process of making distinctions that are false. This is why all language is a lie. This is why the ultimate truth lies in something unspeakable, but the ascent to the unspeakable is through this kind of philosophical analysis. Let me see, that reminds me of something, but does somebody else have something they want to... Language is only the vehicle. Well, it's the vehicle, but eventually there's no road, and you have to park the vehicle and get out and walk, I think, and that's the journey. Plotinus, the great Neoplatonist, has this wonderful phrase, he calls the mystical experience the flight of the alone to the alone. And I love this image, it's so uncompromising, and it's about as true as something can be and still move in the realm of language, because it's saying, you know, finally words fall away, and finally there is only that which cannot be said. Many of you who've stuck with me know that I love to quote this poem by this obscure poet who died in the trenches of France in the First World War, Trumbull Stickney, and he wrote a poem called Meaning's Edge, and the punchline goes like this, Meaning's Edge, I look over Meaning's Edge and feel the dizziness of the things you have not said. And I think that every one of these weekends, this is the effort, to carry you to the edge of an abyss and then push you over into the dizziness of the things unsaid. And they'll always be unsaid, I mean, they are... Wittgenstein, God bless him, had the concept of what he called the unspeakable. He said philosophy operates in the realm of the speakable, but eventually we must confront that which cannot be said, the dizziness of things unsaid, and that's where real authenticity then flows back into the world of community and speech, but it comes from a place of utter silence and unsayability. How could it be otherwise? I mean, what hubris it would be to expect that the small mouth noises of English could encompass being. I mean, that's a primary error that all philosophy chooses to make at the beginning of its enterprise in order to do, set up, shop at all. No, these are lower dimensional slices of a reality that is ultimately unitary, inept.
 unfathomable, unspeakable, and dazzling. Anybody else? No? Shall we do more? Yeah, please. Philosophical discourse is verbal and mental masturbation. Absolutely. And masturbation, you see, because it is... There's a pun here, but it's autopoetic. It is completely out of yourself. There is no union with the other. And the other is what you're always trying to get to. The other is a common term in these literatures. The other is that which cannot be fully known. You know, I always like to quote the British enzymologist J.B.S. Haldane, who made a wonderful statement. He said, The universe is not only stranger than we suppose, it is stranger than we can suppose. And that's a dizzying perception. It's one thing to think it's very strange. It's quite another thing to realize that it is stranger than you can suppose. You may suppose and suppose and suppose, and you will fall so far short of the mark that it's absurd. That's what it means to be in the presence of a mystery, you see. The modern word mystery translates out to unsolved problem. That's not what a mystery is. A mystery is not an unsolved problem. A mystery is a mystery. And ratiocination can exhaust itself and make no progress with it. And that's what's at the core of our being. And that was what was at the core of this ancient perception. I mean, these were thoroughly modern people. They were shoved up against the same things that tug at our hearts and our minds and our souls. And beyond that, there's not a whole hell of a lot that you can say about it. This is an idea that will not die. But its practitioners, as you say, they end up in footnotes. They do not have a happy fate. Certainly Henri Bergson with his idea of the lan vital. This is an effort to preserve this idea of the world's soul. And yet, you know, the fate of Bergson, his influence on modern philosophy is certainly minimal. Alfred North Whitehead is my great favorite. I mean, I think Whitehead is just, you know, the cat's pajamas. And he has this idea of a living cosmos. That life and vitality extend right down into the electron. And yet, in spite of his mathematical contributions, the fact that he wrote Principia Mathematica with Bertrand Russell, Whitehead is not taught. I mean, there's some, I guess, one university in this country where they take him seriously. The modern philosophy is a desert for my money. And who cares about it? Nobody cares about it. Who's living their life according to the conceptions of modern philosophy? Nobody, as far as I can see. But yes, vitalism was this impulse in biology that persisted clear up until the 1920s with embryologists like Dreesch and his school. And mechanical biology has been at great pains to suppress that. That's why Rupert Sheldrake is such a breath of fresh air, because he can be seen as a person carrying the vitalist message back into science. I mean, his new book on the greening of science and nature is nothing more than a manifestation, I'm sorry, a manifesto for the re-recognition of the presence of the world soul. What about the Native Americans that were living that philosophy until you wiped them out? Yes, well, Aboriginal people, not only the Native Americans, but the tribes of the Amazon, if you live next to nature, this is such an overwhelming perception that it's never called into question. But you see, we trace, we, most of us, trace our civilization to desert dwellers who invented agriculture, which gave us surpluses. So then we had to build walled enclosures to defend our surpluses from starving neighbors. And we're talking 6000 BC at Jericho for this kind of stuff. And so we have been cut off from the natural mind longer than any other group of people on earth. This is how we are able to carry out the demonic, in the negative sense, the demonic reconstruction of the world that we have. I mean, what we have done is, you know, if there is a sin, then we have sinned, you know. Robert Oppenheimer said, beyond all rational argument, the physicists have known sin. And it's because they reached into the heart of matter without reverence. And their best trick was to call down the light that burns at the center of stars. And they call it down to the test centers of our deserts and on to the heads of our enemies, if necessary. But this is a cosmic sin. It's an abomination. It's the story of Western civilization. The first great error was the urbanization. Well, I don't know, first great error. The invention of agriculture was a pretty staggering bad turn. Then urbanization. And then a piece of bad luck that really we didn't need to have befall us, which was the invention of the phonetic alphabet. And with the invention of the phonetic alphabet, we moved away from symbolism and lost even the symbolic connection to the world. And that happened with the evolution of demotic Greek and even earlier languages, linear A and B and that kind of stuff. McLuhan talks a lot about this. I mean, we live in a universe so alienated that we can barely conceive of the way back. But hopefully, you know, archaeology is a wonderful thing. I mean, we are actually, as I said to you last night, digging into the stratigraphic layers of our past and reconstructing these ancient intellectual machines and setting their gears, turning and seeing how it works. And hopefully, when we recover, we're like amnesiacs. We're like people who don't remember who we are or where we came from. And we just wander mumbling through the streets of our cities, foraging in garbage cans and frightening other people. And yet, if we could wake up an archaeology and the rebirth of an awareness of the goddess and the pushing of science to the point where its irrational foundations become more clear, this is all part of a program of awakening of an archaic revival that will then make us part of the living world rather than a disease, a parasitic force upon it. This refers to the theme I touched on a little bit last night of the importance of the imagination and how I think that our destiny lies in the imagination. God is ever-existent and makes manifest all else, but he himself is hidden because he is ever-existent. He manifests all things but is not manifested. He is not himself brought into being in images presented through our senses, but he presents all things to us in such images. It is only things which are brought into being that are presented through sense, coming into being is nothing else than presentation through sense. This is so thoroughly modern, it's just staggering. I mean, for 1,000 or 1,500 years people couldn't say anything that clearly. It is evident then that he who alone has not come into being cannot be presented through sense, and that being so, he is hidden from our sight. But he presents all things to us through our senses and thereby manifests himself through all things and in all things, and especially to those whom he wills to manifest himself. For though thought alone can see that which is hidden, inasmuch as thought itself is hidden from sight, and if even the thought which is within you is hidden from your sight, how can he, being in himself, be manifested to you through your bodily eyes? But if you have power to see with the eyes of the mind...
 Then my son he will manifest himself to you for the Lord manifests himself ungrudgingly through all the universe and you can behold God's image with your eyes and Lay hold on it with your hands to my mind This is the permission for the psychedelic experience that we lay hold of the image of the ineffable Through the eyes if you wish to see him think on the Sun think on the course of the moon Think on the order of the stars The Sun is the greatest of the gods in heaven to him as to their king and overlord All the gods of heaven yield place and yet this mighty God Greater than earth and sea Submits to have smaller stars circling above him Who is it then my son that he obeys with reverence and awe Each of these stars too is confined by measured limits and has an appointed space to range in Why do not all the stars in heaven run like and equal courses? who is it that has assigned to each its place and marked out each for the extent of its course and then it goes on and on and Then here is an amazing modern anticipation of modernity Would that it were not possible for you to grow wings and soar into the air poised between earth and heaven you might see the solid earth the fluid sea and the streaming rivers the wandering air the penetrating fire the Courses of the stars and the swiftness of the movement with which heaven encompasses all What happiness were that my son to see all these born along with one impulse and to? Behold him who is unmoved Moving in all that moves and him who is hidden made manifest through his works This is an image of the planet seen from space I mean, it's Absolutely the unified image of our planet And it is I think the the central image in this early hermetic thing This is the unifying this is as close to an image of what Godhead is that they were able to reach I mean, this is a shamanic flight that delivers a Scientific description of the earth moving in space. This is written ad 150. This is book 5 Nobody had that insight until we reached Giordano Bruno and If you read Giordano Bruno in the hermetic tradition You know that Bruno was burned at the stake and the reason he was burned at the stake was because he looked up into the sky and Did not see the stellar shells and the angelic hierarchies Bruno Had a mystical experience and when it was over he said The universe is infinite the stars go on forever and that single statement was just the intellectual dynamite that destroyed the whole medieval and Hellenistic the entire previous Cosmological vision was left behind with that single statement it was such a powerful statement that he had to go to the stake for that and We have never recovered from from that perception It was a fundamental perception and it occurred because he looked without Precondition into the night sky and did not see you know Wheels and demons and angels and shells of cosmic fate and necessity and he just said, you know That's bullshit What is there is infinite space? Infinite time the stars are hung like lamps unto the utmost regions of infinity and this then inaugurates the beginning of modernity and it's a Perception that arose on the foundation of all of this earlier thinking Here's another passage on the imagination. Yes Well the practice We know a lot less about that because there was much secrecy Around this what we have are the philosophical discourses and then when we talk about alchemy this Afternoon, we'll see that there the technique becomes Projection on to matter that you enter into a kind of self hypnosis Where by having these what we call naive ontological categories in other words not being sure Exactly how much of mind is in matter or how much matter is in mind? You can erase the boundary between self and world and project the contents of the unconscious on to Chemical processes now what went on in the early phase here we don't know the hermetic the trismegistic hymns are largely as You see them here philosophical discourses there was stress on diet and Purity Asceticism was typical of the hermetic approach in Gnosticism it one went one of several ways there were schools of Gnosticism which were Vegetarian and Puristic and then because they felt that man was no part of the universe That man was somehow Hermetically sealed if you will hermetically sealed against contamination from the universe Some Gnostic schools said you can do anything you want You can have any kind of sexual arrangement you want you can do anything you want because you are not Do not think that you are part of the universe and so you you had Gnostic schools side-by-side some Orgiastic and quasi tantric and some Ascetic there were Gnostic sects that you see because the idea was that light was trapped in matter by the act of Procreation there were Gnostic sects that only practiced forms of sexual union that couldn't lead to conception So there were presumably exclusively Homosexual sects there were sects which only practiced anal intercourse and for them that was the same as Celibacy because the real concern was not to trap any more of the light And you know, I don't seriously advocate this but I think in our current Situation of overpopulation a little dose of this kind of thinking wouldn't be a bad thing I mean too much light is trapped in the organic matrix And and so they they and these Gnostic sects that for instance were exclusively homosexual or exclusively Practiced anal intercourse, of course, they were suicide sects they disappeared very quickly because they could only make converts by Can in missionary conversion you couldn't you didn't have children you couldn't hand it on but it shows you know how thoroughgoing their rejection of of the world was how contaminated they felt themselves to be By the material world and but then you also had as I mentioned these optimistic schools that saw nature as something to be perfected and and said man has been set onto the earth not to reject it, but to perfect it and Utopianism The belief that one can create a perfect society it goes back into these hermetic ideals because The idea was that a perfect society could be the goal of the alchemical Work, let me read you a passage from Giordano Bruno This is a wonderful passage from the Picatrix Remember Picatrix this was the book of magical 12th century magical texts that began to introduce these hermetic ideas and This passage is the core passage that inspired the Rosicrucians and numerous other utopian movements This is a Here is Francis Yates Hermes Chismagistus is often mentioned as the source for some talismanic images and in other connections But there is in particular
 one very striking passage in the fourth book of Picatrix in which Hermes is stated to have been the first to use magical images and is credited with having founded a marvelous city in Egypt. And here is the passage from the Picatrix. There are among the Chaldeans very perfect masters in this art and they affirmed that Hermes was the first who constructed images by means of which he knew how to regulate the Nile against the motion of the moon. This man also built a temple to the Sun and he knew how to hide himself from all so that no one could see him although he was within it. Now those of you who are scholars of Rosicrucianism know that one of the things that was always said about Rosicrucians was that they were invisible. This was how Robert Flood proved to people that he wasn't a Rosicrucian. Say, you're looking at me so how can I be one? And so he's in the temple but he could not be seen within it. It was he, Hermes Trismegistus, too, who in the east of Egypt constructed a city 12 miles long within which he constructed a castle which had four gates in each of its four parts. On the eastern gate he placed the form of an eagle, on the western gate the form of a bull, on the southern gate the form of a lion, and on the northern gate he constructed the form of a dog. Into these images he introduced spirits which spoke with voices. Nor could anyone enter the gates of the city except by their permission. There he planted trees in the midst of which was a grape tree which bore the fruit of all generation. On the summit of the castle he caused to be raised a tower 30 cubits high, on the top of which he ordered to be placed a lighthouse, the color of which changed every day until the seventh day after which it returned to the first color, and so the city was illuminated with these colors. Near the city there was abundance of waters in which dwelt many kinds of fish. Around the circumference of the city he placed engraved images and ordered them in such a manner that by their virtue the inhabitants were made virtuous and withdrawn from all wickedness and harm. The name of the city was Adocentine. Now what we're familiar with from the Platonic literature is a quasi-rational, largely rational approach to utopian thinking that you get in the Republic. However, students of the Republic will recall that the fifth or tenth book of the Republic contains the myth of Ur, which we went over in detail in the section I did on Neoplatonism, and the myth of Ur is one of the most bizarre and puzzling passages in the entire ancient literature. You recall Ur, E-R, was a soldier who died, he was killed in battle, but after eight days he returned to life and then he told a story that is the absolute puzzlement of ancient scholars. It's highly mathematical, it has to do with the spindle of necessity and the description of some kind of cosmic machine and all the ratios of the gears of this machine are given and nobody knows what is being talked about. But here we have a different thrust, a magical utopianism and the idea of a perfected human society using magic because these engraved images that he ordered in such a manner that by their virtue the inhabitants were made virtuous, that means he was able to deflect the energies of cosmic fate. The city was immune to astrological malefic influence, it was protected. And when we talk later about the alchemical aspirations of the Rosicrucians and John Dee and Frederick the Elector Palatine of Bohemia, we'll see that this impulse toward an alchemical kingdom returns again and again. In a way, utopianism is the the the forgated city of utopian magical dreaming is one version of the Philosopher's Stone. It's a kind of diffuse notion of the Philosopher's Stone, but it's a society in perfect harmony with fully realized beings living within it, practicing a cosmic religion that frees them from the impulses of cosmic fate. The other thing that is going on in some of this alchemical imagery is a kind of subtext of late alchemy is what's called the Ars Memoria, the art of memory. And in fact Francis Yates has a book called The Art of Memory. And this is a lost art, literally. It begins with the Roman orator Cicero and was practiced up until the early 17th century. And what it consisted of was people, orators, it was considered very bad form to read your speech if you were an orator. And so you had to memorize your speech and there were tricks of memory. And the commonest mnemonic trick was to think of a building, was called the Memory Palace, a building that is familiar to you. I've done this myself with the University of California because it's an area that I'm very familiar with because I was a student there and there are many buildings and many hallways and many floors. And what you do is when you make your speech in your mind you are moving through the Memory Palace and at various points you construct what are called emblemata. And the idea of these emblemata is that they be as unusual, shocking, and unexpected as possible in order to be memorable to you. So say you're giving a speech about the seven deadly sins. Well so then Luxuria might be for you a nun copulating with a dog and you'll set the nun and the dog in a little niche in the hallway of the Memory Palace. Well then when you reach that place in your imaginary journey all these associations will spring to mind and you will be able to give your speech flawlessly. To us this sounds tortured and peculiar but it works quite well. One of the great practitioners of the Ars Memoria was Giordano Bruno and he wrote a book called L'Ospechio delle Bistia Triunfante, The Expulsion of the Triumphant Beast. And my god, Max Ernst, eat your heart out. I mean this is a surreal epic read as straight plaintext because that's not how it's supposed to be read. It's an agglomeration of these mnemonic emblemata that led him on then to probably give a fairly conventional disputation on one subject or another. But there are even old books of these emblemata that are, before surrealism, these were some of the wildest images that the Western mind would tolerate. The one thing that we didn't get into this morning was talking about the astrological side of it and the role of the Deccans. The Deccans are these demons, three to a sign, so there are 36 of them. And this was thought to be an astrological conceit that goes back to Egypt as opposed to the ordinary zodiacal significators which go back to Haran in what is now modern Iraq. And these Deccans were the demons that were summoned by these Renaissance magi in an effort to control and manipulate fate. You may, if you were paying attention this morning, noticed that in all the reading I did from the Corpus Hermeticum there was really nothing explicitly magical about it. It was philosophical. There was one mention, I think, of animating statues in the description of the four-gated city, but it was those magical animation passages that really captured the imagination of the Renaissance and they built on it.
 on that, and the idea, simply put, is that these decans and zodiacal signs are at the center of associative schemata, which include plants, minerals, odors, certain flowers, certain animals, everything had its decanic assignation. And so if you were involved in promoting an affair with a woman or something like that, then you would do an invocation to Venus, and you would gather the associated minerals, stones, animals, and you would put them in a room, and then certain tonal modes were also associated with these things. And so you would play the music, you would have the flowers present, the minerals present, the invocations, and what you were trying to do is create a microcosm of the macrocosm to draw down this stellar energy. It wasn't about the classical Hollywood appearance of demons in a circle. That's the stuff of Picatrix, the earlier, somewhat less refined style of magic. Let's see, yes, oh, here it is, I did bring it. I wanted to read you one passage here from, this is Francis Yates again, in Giordano and the Hermetic Tradition, because this describes this change of status of the magician that we're interested in. And also, what we didn't talk about this morning was the importance of Kabbalah, which came in quite late, but was then worked out in great detail. This was originally the idea, it was the Jewish contribution to this kind of magic. It was the idea that since the world had been made by Jehovah, by the speaking of words, in principio ad verbum, ad verbo caro factum est, in other words, the speaking of Hebrew was thought to be the use of a primary linguistic tool for the purposes of creation. The problem for these Italians was very few of them spoke Hebrew, and so it was sometimes practiced silently, the mere constructing of these Hebrew letters and the setting out of messages in Hebrew was deemed efficacious as well. And then a further declension, for people who were even frustrated with that, was to channel magical languages, which were pseudo-Hebraic in structure and appearance. And this is a whole branch of research, much too arcane for us to go into here. The only non-Hebraic magical language that I may mention will be Enochian, and Enochian was an angelic language channeled to John Dee and used by him in his magical evocations, and then later it was taken up by Alistair Crowley and the folks of the Golden Dawn. But there were many, many of these magical languages. The Vonage Manuscript is written in one of them. But I want to read you this passage about how the Renaissance changed the status of the magician. We begin to perceive here an extraordinary change in the status of the magician. The necromancer concocting his filthy mixtures, the conjurer making his frightening invocations were both outcasts from society, regarded as dangers to religion and forced into plying their trades in secrecy. These old-fashioned characters are hardly recognizable in the philosophical and pious magi of the Renaissance. There is a change in status almost comparable to the change in status of the artist from the mere mechanic of the Middle Ages to the learned and refined companion of princes of the Renaissance, and the magics themselves are changed almost out of recognition. Who could recognize the necromancer studying his picatrix in secret in the elegant Ficino with his infinitely refined use of sympathies, his classical incantations, his elaborately neoplatonized talismans? Who could recognize the conjurer using the barbarous techniques of some clavis salomonis in the mystical pico lost in the religious ecstasies of Kabbalah drawing archangels to his side? And yet there is a kind of continuity because the techniques are at bottom based on the same principles. Ficino's magic is an infinitely refined and reformed version of pneumatic necromancy. Pico's practical Kabbalah is an intensely religious and mystical version of conjuring. So now we move in this realm. I mean, these were the companions of princes, and there was in that 120 years from Latin America let's say 1500 to the beginning of the 30 Years' War a constant effort in various parts of Europe to try and turn European society toward a kind of magical revolution. I mean, the Europe of the 11th and 12th century was entirely ruled by scholastic rationalism. Witchcraft was virtually unknown and very curious. It's the 15th and 16th century where you get this tremendous proliferation of magical systems, magical ideas, and social hysterias related to witchcraft, alchemy, conjuring, and magic. I mean, those are the centuries when these things really broke out into the open. And alchemy in that period is basically a story of personalities, wonderful personalities, too many for us to really talk about in detail. I mean, we have Nicholas and Pertonelle Flamel who sought and found the Philosopher's Stone according to legend, and according to legend are living to this day somewhere in Central Asia in perfect happiness, having achieved not only the chemical wedding but the Water Stone of the Wise. And then we have Basil Valentine who refined red wine and distilled it in distillation apparatus until he got essentially pure alcohol. And upon drinking this, he was so convinced that he had found the Philosopher's Stone that he announced the eminent approach of the end of the world based on his discovery. And he was not secretive at all. He propagated his recipes and in fact sampled the distillates of some of his brother alchemists and popularized this very widely. To this day, the reason certain cognacs are in the hands of monastic orders and no one else can make these things is because they were originally alchemical secrets and many of these early alchemists were men of the cloth, quite a number of them. So what I thought I would do is in a highly chaotic fashion read you some of this alchemical literature. Now, the big bring down about alchemical literature is that apparently the muse didn't always smile on the alchemist and some of this poetry is pretty tormented stuff. Why this is, who can say? But let's try one here and see if you can bear with it. Also, my Middle English is not as good as it might be. This is a short one and typical and you will see why the alchemists were charged with unbearable obscurity and prolex prose. This poem is called A Description of the Stone. Though Daphne fly from Phoebus bright, yet shall they both be one and if you understand this right, you have our hidden stone. For Daphne, she is fair and white, but volatile is she.
 she, Phoebus a fixed god of might, and red as blood is he, Daphne is a water-nymph, and hath of moisture store, which Phoebus doth confine and heat, and dries her very shore, they being dried into one, of crystal flood must drink, till they be brought to a white stone, which washed with virgin's milk, so long until they flow as wax, and no fume you can see, then have you all you need to ask, praise God, and thankful be." This is a recipe for the production of the Philosopher's Stone, and the author I'm sure felt that he'd spoken as clearly as he'd dare speak, and yet, you know, making something of this is no easy task. This is from the Teatrium Chemicum Britannicum, and the late phase of alchemy. Here's another one. The world is a maze, and what you why? For sooth of late a great man did die, and as he lay a-dying in his bed, these words in secret to his son he said. My son, quoth he, "'Tis good for thee I die, for thou shalt much the better be thereby, and when thou seest that life hath me bereft, take what thou findest, and where I have it left, thou dost not know, nor what my riches be. All which I will declare, give ear to me. An earth I had, all venom to expel, and that I cast into a mighty well. A water-eck to cleanse what was amiss, I threw into the earth, and there it is. My silver all into the sea I cast, my gold into the air, and at the last into the fire, for fear it should be found, I threw a stone worth forty thousand pound, which stone was given me by a mighty king, who bade me wear it in a fourfold ring. Quoth he, this stone is by that ring found out, if wisely thou canst turn this ring about. For every hope contrary is to other, yet all agree, and of the stone is mother. So now my son, I will declare a wonder, that when I die, this ring must break asunder. The king said so, but when he said withal, although the ring be broke in pieces small, an easy fire shall soon it close again. Who this can do, he need not work in vain, till this my hidden treasure be found out. When I am dead, my spirit shall walk about. Make him to bring your fire from the grave, and stay with him till you my riches have. These words a worldly man did chance to hear, who daily watched the spirit, but nay the near, and yet it meets with him and every one, yet tells him not, where is the hidden stone. Now this stuff is obscure, it's deliberately obscure, it was obscure to its contemporaries, and the whole effort became one of collecting this kind of material and finding it out, and you have to understand this was all circulating in manuscript, very little of this was printed. The Teatrium Chemicum Britannicum was not printed until 1652, so this was a world without vehicular transportation other than the horse and carriage, and these people were paranoid of being discovered and persecuted for wizardry and witchcraft by the church. So each alchemist working in secret with a limited number of texts, with a local control language, created this vast conceptual patchwork of ideas, and this is in large measure responsible for the obscurity of what is said. Then another factor which impinges on this and further complicates the matter is that the name of the game was projection of the contents of the imagination onto physical processes. So taking red cinnabar, which I mentioned last night, and heating it in a furnace until it sweats mercury, for one alchemist this is the incineration of the red salamander and the collection of our Mercurius in the Great Pelican. They named their chemical apparati after animals and gods, and so the pelican is a standard distillation apparatus, basically a condenser on top of something which is boiled, and then these materials would be collected, ground, powdered, re-fired, mixed with other materials, re-fired again, and in the process these people were, we call it, I mean it's such a weak term, the projection of the intellect into this dimension. They were living in a waking dream, and many of the recipes are designed to wipe out the boundaries between waking and sleeping. Remember I talked about the river of mercury that runs between the yin and yang? Many of the alchemical processes were of 40 days duration. Well you can imagine a hermit fearing discovery by the church, trying to keep his fires not too hot, not too cold, working day after day, night after night, eventually all boundaries dissolve and you're just living in a pure world of intellectual projection, and then in the swirling of the alembic, in the chemical processes going on in the retort, you begin to be able to project your conscious onto this. It's what we call visualization, but for us it's a very, it's a kind of a weak term because we don't, we are never really able to accept in the psychedelic state to transcend the belief in the inner world and the outer world being somehow separate. So for us it's always separate from us, but they were able to wipe out that boundary. Well then, what they saw in their swirling retorts and alembics was not carbonization, calcination, condensation of various molecular weights of liquids and oils out, but rather the birth of the red lion, the coming of the eagle, the appearance of the smaragdene stone. They had hundreds and hundreds of these words and I didn't bring any with me, but much alchemical literature are dictionaries. Martinus Rulandus's Alchemical Dictionary is a huge book of words with special meanings in the alchemical context, and these, okay, so why? Why do this? And what happens when you do it? Well, no matter what alchemist you're reading, there's always an agreement that there are stages in the great work, stages in the opus, as they called it, and you can't get any agreement on in what order these stages come, but roughly it's something like this. Most agree that it begins in the negredo, the blackening, our crow, the saturnine world of what we would call manic depression, despair, and that our chaos, a chaotic, near psychotic state of unbounded hopelessness, and that is the precondition, then, for the alchemical work, though the stages of the opus never occur in order. I had a dream last night that was, I think, triggered by an illustration in Fabricius that I'll show you tonight, but it was a classical alchemical dream. It was that I was at a country fair, and its antiquity was indicated by the fact that it was happening on the schoolyard of my childhood, and as I moved among the participants of this country fair, I began to notice that they were freaky. I mean, there were people with withered arms, and one side of their face slid down, and so forth and so on. The whole thing began to drift toward nightmare, and Richard Hermes Bird appeared in my dream as my alchemical compadre, and at one point, a black woman, perched on a chair, and she was sitting on a chair, and she was sitting on a chair, and she was
 symbolism for the Negrito. A black woman with three withered arms and six or seven breasts slid herself sideways in front of me and it was at that point that I went and found Richard and said I think we better get out of here. Well now an alchemist would greet a dream like this with great anticipation and joy and would understand that this sets the stage now for the next movement forward. Well then accounts differ and those of you who really want to get into this I recommend you read Mysterium Conjunctiones by Jung, The Mysterious Conjunction, and he discusses the Negro, the Negrito in great detail. Another symbol for the Negrito is the Cenex, the old man, because the old man is just short of death and that's the state that the Negrito makes you feel. Well then you must take this raw, chaotic, unformed material often compared to feces, compared to corruption, compared to the contents of an opened grave and you must cook it in the alchemical fires of contemplation, prayer, and ascetic self-control and then you will move through a series of stages that are associated with colors. There is the Rubedo, the reddening, there is the Citrinitas, the yellowing, there is the Veriditas, the greening, and the order in which these occurs differs according to who you follow, but then there is closure. At the end of the process most alchemists, although certainly not all, agree that the higher state is the Albedo, the whitening, the Purificatio, right? So at each stage there are sub-stages of dissolution, dissolution, et coagulatio, and there's one alchemical aphorism that says dissolution et coagulatio, know this and this is all you need to know, and so it's a melting and a recasting and a purifying of psychic contents. Well then a whole, so finally you reach the Albedo, the whitening, the highest stage, the stage of great purity, but remember how I said last night that mercury was always the metaphor for mind in alchemy, or one of the metaphors for mind in alchemy, and I talked about its mutability and its ability to take the shape of its container and when you shatter it, it then splits into many reflections. So once you move into the domain of the Albedo, the whitening, then a whole new problem arises for the alchemist, and this is the problem of the fixing of the stone. Somehow the mutability of mercury must be overcome and it must be crystallized, it must be fixed so that it doesn't get away from you, so that it doesn't slip through your fingers. To achieve our mercury is nothing unless you have the secret of the coagulatio, and so then there's a huge amount of effort devoted to this. Well, what is being described is what Jungians call the individuation process, a dissolving of the boundaries of the ego, an allowing of the chaotic material of the unconscious to pour forth where it can be inspected by consciousness, and we'll see tonight when we look at this art that these images are full of ravening beasts, incestuous mother-son pairs, incestuous brother-sister pairs, hermaphrodites, all taboos are broken. This stuff just boils up from the unconscious, then is sublimed through these processes, and then is somehow fixed, and this fixing then is the culmination of alchemy, and if you can bring off this trick, then you possess our stone, the philosopher's stone, the lapis, the Sophic hydrolith of the wise, Arrhenius Philolithes calls it, and there were hundreds of control words for naming the secret difficult to obtain, alchemical gold in short, this is what we're after, and if you possess it, nothing else is worth anything, because it is psychic completion, peace of mind. Jung called it the self, it's the self that we are trying to recover, and remember we talked about the Gnostic myths of the light trapped in matter, well this is the luminae deluminae, this is the light of light, the lux natura, the light drawn out of nature and condensed into a fixed form, which then becomes the universal panacea, and I'm using as many of these alchemical terms as I can draw out of my memory to give you a feeling for it, this is the universal medicine, it cures all ills, you know, it brings you riches, fame, wealth, self-respect, it's the answer, it's what everyone is looking for, and no one can find, you see, so this just became a consuming passion of the 15th and 16th century mind, and they thought they were on the brink of it, and along the way they were discovering stuff like distilled alcohol, phosphorus, gunpowder, all of these things were coming out of the alchemical laboratories, but that was not it, you see, they kept driving themselves onward because they knew that this was not the real thing, and they were pursuing the real thing. Well then, for some people, it became then reassociated with this notion of the utopia that I mentioned this morning in the passage that I read about the city of Hermes Trismegistus, and they began to see, it's almost like the crisis which overcame Buddhism, it must be an archetypal, and notice how rarely we've used that word here, it must be almost an archetypal stage in human thought, you know, Theravadan Buddhism stressed individual redemption through meditation on emptiness, and then with the great reforms of Nagarjuna, the idea of bodhisattvic compassion was introduced, and that carries with it a political freight, an obligation to society and mankind, and so as the 15th and 16th century progressed, there began to be this awareness that what was wanted was not for an alchemist to break through to his own personal salvation, but somehow to create an alchemical world, and you get then the notion of the multiplicatio, the idea that the stone, once created, will replicate itself and be able to change base matter into itself, almost like a virus spreading through the ontological structure of matter itself, and the world will be reborn, and this idea then, what was happening was these alchemists were getting bolder, and printing was invented in Mainz near Frankfurt in 1540, the distribution of these alchemical books was changing the character of alchemy, it was no more the solitary hermit working away in his cave or mountaintop far away from the minions of the church, these alchemists began to dream of banding together, of forming societies, of creating brotherhoods that were united in the sharing of their knowledge and their purpose, and this brings us to the curious episode in history called the Rosicrucian Enlightenment, and Dame Frances Yates once again got there first, and she wrote a book called the Rosicrucian Enlightenment, which traces the history of these alchemical brotherhoods and reveals to us what they were really about.
 what they were about was this dream of somehow taking the philosopher's stone and the power, the immortality, the insight that it would bring, and making it a general utility of mankind. And in the, you know, one way of looking at modernity, I mean, I have a friend who claims that the summoning of the Holy Spirit into matter can be seen as the creation of the modern world of electrical energy, that people like Helmholtz and Faraday were completing the alchemical work. It's very hard for us to realize how mysterious the electromagnetic field seemed to the 19th century. The 19th century had entirely imbued itself with the spirit of democracy and atomism translated through Newtonian physics, and they believed, you know, that everything was little balls of hard matter winging through space. Well, when Helmholtz and Faraday and these people began to talk about action at a distance and generating the electromagnetic field, and trapping lightning in Leiden jars and running it through wires, what could this be but pneuma? What could this be but the trapping of spiritus? What could it be but the literal descent of the Holy Ghost into history? And, you know, give it a moment's thought. For thousands of years, electricity was something that you saw when you took an amber rod and a piece of cat fur and went into a darkened room and stroked the cat fur, and then when you would bring the amber rod close to the cat fur, you would see the crackle of static electricity through the cat fur. For thousands of years, that's what electricity was. Who would dream that you could light cities, that you could smelt metals, that you could illuminate the earth with this energy? And yet, you know, from the 1850s to the present, this was done. It's almost a literalizing, the final literalizing of the alchemical dream. But to go back now, I digress, I fear. Let's go back to the climate of the 1580s. And the central culprit here, and to my mind, a giant figure casting an enormous shadow over the landscape of alchemy and modern science, is the Englishman John D. John D. united in himself the complete spirit of the medieval magus and the complete spirit of the modern scientist. He invented the navigational instruments that allowed the conquest of the round earth. When Francis Drake sailed up the coast of California, he had navigational instruments that were top secret. The French, the Spanish must be kept away from this stuff, and these were navigational instruments created by John D. that allowed him to locate himself anywhere on the globe. But John D. was a man who, on a late summer evening in Mortlake, in his house in Mortlake outside London, the angel Gabriel descended into his garden and gave him what he called the showstone, S-H-E-W in old English, the showstone. And the showstone exists to this day. You can see it in the British Museum. And what's amazing about it is it's a piece of polished obsidian. It's an Aztec mirror is what it is. And there was a ruler of the Aztecs named Smokey Mirror. How John D. got this thing, we cannot even imagine. I mean, he says he got it from an angel. Nobody can really, nay, say that. However, I suspect that Cortez, on his first return to Spain from the New World, he brought a number of objects with him that he had collected in central Mexico. And somehow John D. got his hands on this thing. And it was for him a television screen into the logos. And he used it over a number of years to direct the foreign policy of England. He was the confidant of Queen Elizabeth I. And he also was the most accomplished astrologer in Europe. And he used his ability to cast horoscopes as an entree into all the great houses of Europe, the kings and nobles of Europe. Well, he was functioning as an intelligence agent. He was a spy for the British crown, insinuating himself into these various courtly scenes, and then writing back to Elizabeth in ciphers, ciphers that had previously only been used for magical purposes. He was sending back data on the strength of military garrisons and the placement of fortifications and this sort of thing. But this was what he was doing in the 1580s. He kept the show stone for a number of years, and he didn't seem to be able to make much progress with it. He had other methods, too. He had wax tables and sigils. But finally into his life came a very mysterious character named Edward Kelly. And some accounts say that Edward Kelly had no ears, which indicates that he had had his ears removed for being a charlatan and a Montebank. This was a common punishment in the provinces of England. So Edward Kelly was a very dubious character, I think. For one strong piece of evidence that he was a shady character was John Dee was married to a much younger woman named Andy, who by all accounts was quite a beauty. And after gaining Dee's confidence as a scryer, the person who could look into the show stone and lay out these scenarios that the angels and the entities coming and going in the show stone were putting forth, Kelly revealed to Dee that the angels had instructed him to hit the hay with Anne. And this was a great crisis in their relationship. However, according to Dee's diary, and so it was done, we read. So, you know, hanky-panky didn't begin with the golden dawn, believe me. In 1582, Andy, John Dee, and Edward Kelly set out for Bohemia, and Rudolph, the mad king of Bohemia, held sway at that time. Now this is another one of these bizarre figures in the whole story of this. Rudolph collected dwarfs, he collected giants, he had what was called a wunderkammer, a wonder cabinet. You see, before Linnaeus, before modern scientific classification, these great patrons of the arts and natural sciences, they would just collect weird stuff. And that was all you could say about him. It was rhinoceros horns, fossil ammonites, broken pieces of statues from antiquity, giant insects from southern India, seashells, all the stuff would just be thrown together in these wunderkammer, these wonder cabinets. And Rudolph was a great patron of the arts. Well, Kelly sent the word that he and Dee had perfected the alchemical process, and Rudolph immediately paid their way to Prague and patronized them very lavishly over a number of months, but then they didn't seem to be coming through, and he rented, he ordered a castle put at their disposal in Bohemia, and they still weren't able to come through. The Vonage manuscript figures in here too, because Kelly's entree to Dee was that he had a manuscript in an unknown language, and I believe that this probably was the Vonage manuscript. The Vonage manuscript turns up in the estate of Rudolph, and the very month that he paid 14,000 gold ducats for it to persons unknown, Dee, who was always writing back,
 back to the Elizabethan court, hounding them to send money, entered in his account book that they received 14,000 gold ducats from an unknown source. Dee was able to talk himself out of this alchemical imprisonment, but not before he had written a book called The Hieroglyphic Monad. Now, you have to understand the importance of this. As late as the 1920s, in England, in the better schools of England, like Eton, when you studied geometry, you studied Euclid's works, and Euclid's geometry was always preceded by Dee's preface to Euclid. Until the 1920s, every English school child studied this. He was a master mathematician, as well as all these other things. This was how he was able to produce these navigation instruments. So Dee, while imprisoned in Bohemia, wrote a book called The Hieroglyphic Monad, in which he proposed to prove, through a series of occult theorems, that a certain diagram, which unfortunately, I didn't bring The Hieroglyphic Monad, but it's basically the symbol of, you know, the symbol of Mercury, which looks like the symbol for female, but you put horns on it, and then there were some adumbrations to that. By a series of theorems, he built up this Hieroglyphic Monad, and he initiated a couple of young men named Johann Andrei and Michael Meyer into the mysteries of The Hieroglyphic Monad. Well, then he was able to get out of Bohemia, and he went back to England. Kelly, who had made much more extravagant claims, Rudolph kept at work on the alchemical opus, and Kelly became more and more desperate to escape, and one night in 1587, he crept out on the parapet of this Bohemian castle, and a roof tile slipped beneath his feet, and he fell to his death, and became, so far as I can tell, alchemy's only true martyr. Well, Dee returned to England, and he was now very old, and he died at Mortlake in 1606. Elizabeth died in 1604. Shakespeare was happening, Sir Philip Sidney was happening through this period. John Dee reputedly had over 6,000 books in his library. He had more books than any man in England. He had books, we have a partial catalog of his library. He had books that do not exist now. He had Roger Bacon manuscripts, because you see, when Henry VIII kicked the Catholic Church out of England, the Northumbrian monasteries were looted by the Earl of Northumberland, and basically, Dee was allowed to pick over the loot from these monasteries, and there were Roger Bacon manuscripts which perished when Dee's library was burned by an angry mob while he was on the continent, because he was suspected of being a wizard. He was the model for Faust in the later recensions of Faust, and whenever you see an old man with a white beard and a pointed cap, this image is really referent to Dee. Well, Elizabeth died in 1604, I believe, and James I became king of England, and James was a peculiar character. The wags of the time liked to say, Elizabeth was king, and now James is queen. And not only that, he hated occultism. He had no patience with the whole magical court that Elizabeth had assembled around herself. Well, now, meanwhile, in 1606, a very mysterious document began to circulate in Europe and in England called the Fama. This is the first word of a string of Latin words, the Fama, and two years later, the Confessio, and what these were were announcements that an alchemical brotherhood was seeking recruits. These are the primary documents of Rosicrucianism. Now, Rosicrucianism was based on a fiction, and a fictional person, Christian Rosencrantz, who was imagined to have lived almost 200 years earlier in the 1540s and been a great alchemist, and it was claimed that his tomb had been recently opened and that there were books inside it which set the stage for the alchemical revolution of the world. Notice how this occult mind always tries to reach back in time to give itself validity. So, and Christian Rosencrantz was claimed to be the author of a series of books, the chief of which is called The Chemical Wedding. What this was all about, I believe, and the Rosicrucian Enlightenment makes it fairly clear, was D, during the period when he had been in Bohemia, had set out to lay the groundwork for an alchemical revolution in Central Europe, and he had made Johann Andrei and Michael Maier his agents in this plot, and it was a plot, a plot to meddle with European history and to turn the Protestant Reformation toward an alchemical completion. They felt that Luther and Hus and these people had only gone so far and that the culmination of throwing off the yoke of the church would be the establishment of an alchemical kingdom in Central Europe. The target, then, of the attention of Michael Maier and Johann Andrei and a number of these alchemists became the young Frederick, he's called Frederick the Elector Palatine. He was a prince of the Northern League in Germany. He ruled in Heidelberg, and Heidelberg, as you know, is a thousand-year-old university city, and I believe I mentioned that the alchemical press of Theodore de Bry was operating out of Heidelberg. Heidelberg became a magnet for all the occult thinking going on in Europe, and all the puffers and alchemists, the gold makers, the philosophers, the charlatans, they all converged on Heidelberg, and Andrei and Maier were advisors of the young Frederick, and they steered him, by a series of political manipulations too complex to tell, toward a marriage with the daughter of James I of England, who was named Elizabeth, interestingly enough. So Frederick the Elector made Elizabeth the son of James of England his wife. Now, Frederick here made a serious miscalculation, because he thought that if James would give the hand of his daughter in marriage, that this was his way of blessing this alchemical conspiracy. Actually, what was on James' mind was he was about to give one of his sons in marriage to a Spanish princess of the Habsburg line, a Catholic. In other words, he was playing both sides against each other. He was not giving the green light to an alchemical revolution at all, but it was assumed so. Well, then in 16, 17, 18, Rudolf, remember Rudolf, the emperor, he finally dies at a very ripe old age. And at that time, the Protestant League, which was made up of these princes of these small principalities scattered across Germany and Poland, they actually elected the emperor. It was not by right of primogeniture, but by election by what was called the Northern League, this group of princes. Frederick and, yes, Frederick and his alchemical cohorts had done their political groundwork very, very skillfully, and they were able to engineer the election of Frederick to emperor of the empire.
 and he became Frederick the Elector Palatine of Bohemia. And this set the stage for an episode called the episode of the Winter King and Queen, one of the great, after Nicholas and Pertinelle Flamel, this is one of the great romantic stories of alchemy. They moved their court from Heidelberg to Prague, and all the alchemists went with them, and they assumed that English armies would support them if there was any squawk from the Habsburgs. And the winter of 1618, they ruled there and began to lay the groundwork for the transformation of Northern Europe into an alchemical kingdom. The problem was, as I said, the faithlessness and duplicity of James I of England. He did not support them, in spite of the fact that the fate of his daughter hung in the balance. And by May of 1619, the local bishop of the Catholic Church was fully aroused and word had been sent to Madrid, and the Habsburgs raised an army and lay siege to Prague. And in the late summer, in the midsummer of 1619, the Winter King and Queen were driven from Prague, and the city fell to Catholic forces. The alchemical presses were smashed, and Michael Meyer, who was like the prime minister of this scene, was murdered in an alley of Prague, and the entire alchemical dream went down the drain. Frederick was killed in the siege of the city, and Elizabeth escaped to The Hague, where she lived in exile for many years. Well, until recently, I thought that that was the end of the story, but there is a codex that's very, or a coda, that is amusing, if nothing else. In that Habsburgian army, there was a young soldier of fortune, only 19 years old, still wet behind the ears, knowing nothing, happily soldiering and wenching his way around Europe while he decided what to do with himself. And his name was Ren Descartes, a Frenchman. And Descartes, in his later years, reminisced about his period as a soldier in this army, and I like to think that it was actually Descartes who murdered Meyer. One of my ambitions is to write a play or a novel where these two confront themselves in a back alley of burning Prague and carry on a debate about the future of Europe before Michael Meyer falls to the sword of Descartes. Well, that may be apocryphal, but what is not apocryphal is that this Habsburgian army, having laid siege and destroyed the alchemical kingdom, began to retreat across Europe that fall, and by mid-September was camped near the town of Ulm in southern Germany. Now, by a strange coincidence, Ulm is the birthplace of Einstein some hundreds of years later. But on the night of September 16th, Descartes had a dream, and in this dream, an angel appeared to him, and this is documented by his own hand, and the angel said to Descartes, the quest of nature is to be achieved through measure and number, and that revelation lay the basis for modern science. Ren Descartes is the founder of the distinction between the res virens and the res extensa, the founder of modern science, the founder of the scientific method that created the philosophical engines that created the modern world. How many scientists working at their workbenches understand that an angel chartered modern science? It's the alchemical angel, which will not die. It returns again and again to guide the destinies of nations and peoples toward an unimaginable conclusion. I mean, that's not the last time that this angelic intervention in the history of science has occurred. Some of you may know the story in the 19th century of Kekuli, the German chemist who was struggling with the molecular structure of benzene, couldn't get it straight, and then had a dream in which he saw the ouroboric snake take its tail in its mouth, and he awoke from that dream with the carbon ring burning in his mind. Well, the carbon ring, the six-sided heptadal state, form of the carbon ring, is the basis for all organic chemistry. So, you know, and then I mentioned earlier, Faraday and Helmholtz and the rise of the electromagnetic field. The point I'm trying to make is that however rational we may assume ourselves to be, however rational we may assume modern science to be, it is all really founded on angelic revelation, demonic intercession, and an extremely mysterious relationship between the human mind and the world of what science calls inert matter, which from this point of view is revealed to be not inert at all, but alive and pregnant with purpose for mankind. The alchemical kingdom of Frederick the Elector, then there were a series of adumbrations of this kind of thinking. Many of you may know about the Freemasonry and the many Freemason revolts in Bohemia and Bavaria throughout the 16th and 17th century. Adam Weishaupt and the Illuminati is another effort to do this. And even the Royal Society, founded by Newton and Hooke and those people, was still an effort to redeem science for the spirit. So the alchemical spirit lives on. It never really died. It's just that it has taken peculiar forms in our own day. And I mentioned, I think, last night that when you enter into nuclear chemistry, the most literal dreams of the profane side of it are those of the side of alchemy. The transformation of lead into gold has actually been achieved. I mean, it has no economic significance because the instrumentality to do it costs tens of millions of dollars. But nevertheless, yes, lead in our time has been changed into gold. So that's basically what I wanted to say about this. I hope there are questions and stuff that we can say about it. I'm gonna take you back to the Vonage manuscript for a minute. There was this thing about it was a liturgical manual for some, is that your opinion of it? Well, yes, this is kind of a footnote on all of this. You remember I said that Kelly's entree to Dee was that he had a mysterious book. And you can tell from what I've said already, Dee was as big a sucker for books as I am. And so this book, Kelly's story was that he had gone to sleep in the ruins of a Northumbrian monastery and slept in an open sepulcher, a crypt of some sort. And when he awoke, he found beneath him two things, a vial of red powder, which he said was the transmissing powder, a necessary part to the alchemical opus, and a book in an unknown language, which he called the Gospel of St. Dunstable, possibly because this monastery had been dedicated to St. Dunstable. Well, now, Arthur Dee was John Dee's son, and he said that when in his own, he became an alchemist in his own right, and he said that when he was growing up, he recalled that his father spent many hours puzzling over a book.
 as he put it, all covered with hieroglyphics. But Dee, who elaborated the angelologic language called Enochian, never actually wrote or discussed the book that he had received from Kelly. It is definitely not written in Enochian. Enochian, when grammatically analyzed by computers, has a curious relationship to 16th century English. But when Dee and Kelly traveled to Europe, they were talking up Roger Bacon, who was a 14th century English monk who had dabbled in alchemy, and they claimed to have Bacon manuscripts. And Rudolph became very interested in this and wanted to obtain some of these Baconian manuscripts. Now, I suspect that what happened was that Dee, by this time, had given up on deciphering the Gospel of Saint Dunstable and decided that he would palm it off on the emperor as a Bacon manuscript because he didn't want to give up a real Bacon manuscript because they were too valuable to him. So for 14,000 gold ducats, this thing changed hands, and Kelly and Dee and Anne were able to pay their bills. And Frederick had, I'm sorry, Rudolph had immense resources because of his position as emperor, and he brought his cryptographers and decipherers in to work on this Gospel of Saint Dunstable and got nowhere. Well, then, when Rudolph died, a mysterious book was numbered among the artifacts of his estate, and I think we can assume it's this book. And one of the interesting things about this book is it has pages and pages of plant drawings, over 150 watercolors of plants, each carefully labeled, captioned in this unknown language. Well, if you know anything about decipherment, this is what a decipherer dreams of because if you have a picture of the thing and the caption, it doesn't take too much smarts to be able to figure out what's going on. Nevertheless, this was completely unhelpful. A third of the manuscript has pseudo-astrological material, in other words, what look like horoscopes and drawings of stars and stellar shells, but when carefully analyzed, dissolve into meaninglessness, cannot be associated with anything. And then a third of the manuscript shows little naked ladies in what can only be described as elaborate plumbing systems, and it was thought at one time that these must be drawings of the humors of the body in the liver, that these little naked women represented spirits moving inside the human body, or then somebody else's guess was it must show an obscure form of German hydrotherapy because, you know, the Germans were, if you've ever been to Baden-Baden or Marienbad or these places where people take the waters, well, those places are old, old, and all this stuff is captioned, and there are even tables of contents, which again, you would think, would yield to decipherment. And so when Rudolf died, because of the botanical material in this book, it passed to the court botanist, a man named Marici, and he got nowhere with it. Well, then in the early 16th century, a great alchemist and polymath, some of whose art we'll see this evening, was Heinrich Kundrath, and Heinrich Kundrath was fascinated by artificial languages, and he heard about the Vonage manuscript, and we have a whole bunch of letters from Kundrath to the keepers of the estate of the emperor trying to obtain this manuscript, which he finally did obtain, and then at that point, he makes no further mention of it in his diaries, the conclusion being that he, too, could get nowhere with this thing, that it just defied decipherment. Well, in 1619, at the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War, and that's what I forgot to mention in my earlier discussion, this episode of the winter king and queen is one way of debating the Thirty Years' War. It's usually considered to be the moment when a certain personage was hurled from a third-story window in Prague, and then fighting broke out in the streets, but really, the episode of the winter king and queen brought the thing to a head. Well, in 1619, to avoid being caught up in the Thirty Years' War, Kundrath decided to take holy orders and become a Jesuit, and so he gave his library, which was Compendious, to the monastery that he joined, which was a monastery in southern Italy, and there this thing sat until 1906, when a New York rare book dealer named Alfred Vonnitsch bought the entire contents of this monastic library, and when he got it all back to New York and cataloged it, it was all very predictable 16th-century theological and alchemical speculation, except here was this book in an unknown language, and Vonnitsch kept it throughout his life, and then when he died, he gave it to Yale, and it is to this day at the Benecke Rare Book Room at Yale. Well, in the 1960s, the CIA became interested in it because the CIA is in the business of code-making and breaking. I mean, a huge amount of energy goes into this, and if you know anything about the Enigma Project in World War II, you know that vast energies go into the production of unbreakable codes, and so they very systematically sought out all examples of encrypted material throughout history and just lickety-split deciphered it one after another, and all occult and magical codes known to exist in Europe can be traced back to one person, virtually to one person, to Trithemius, Bishop of Sponheim, who was the great teacher of Henry Cornelius Agrippa. All magical codes, if you know the Trithemian method within a few hours, you can get plain text. Well, the Vonage Manuscript did not yield at all to this method, and the CIA formed a working group that for over 10 years would invite scholars in to have a look at this, and if you're interested in this, Marie d'Imperio, who was a great Renaissance scholar, wrote a book called The Vonage Manuscript, an elegant enigma in which she traces the efforts of the CIA to figure this thing out and figure out what it could be. Well, there the matter rested until about three years ago when, I think his name is Leo Levertov, some kind of military historian, one of these peculiar people who live for this stuff, he got a hold of it, and he said, and d'Imperio goes through all the decipherment, and there were many efforts at decipherment. There was a scholar at Yale in the 20s named Brumbaugh who was a very respected man who ruined himself by claiming a complete decipherment of the Vonage Manuscript, and the way the game is played is you say what your rules for the decipherment were, you give them to a colleague, you give the rules to a colleague, and you give your colleague a page of text. If he can't translate it with your rules, then you are viewed as a deluded and misguided person, and your career goes down in flames. Well, the Brumbaughian method for deciphering the Vonage Manuscript had to do with confined pools of letters where it would get you to a pool of.
 five or six letters, but then you could freely choose which one you used, and critics of Brumbaugh demonstrated that you could make this thing say anything you wanted it to. Brumbaugh supported Dee's claim. He claimed that it deciphered out into a Roger Bacon manuscript that described a series of riots between the students and the Blackfriars at Christmastime in 1385 at Oxford, but nobody else could make it say that or make it say anything. So Brumbaugh disgraced him and ruined his career. So then, and then there were other efforts at decipherment, which I won't bore you with, but along comes Leo Levertov just four years ago, and he wrote a book called The Vonage Manuscript, a liturgical manual for the Catharites, and his great breakthrough, if you accept his translation, and I do, I know people who don't, but they don't seem to have read him as carefully as I have. I think the dude has it pretty well nailed to the barn door. His great breakthrough was to realize that it's not in code. It is not an encrypted manuscript at all. What it is is it's a synthetic alphabet, yes. It's an alphabet that no, and one of the things that baffled the CIA was they looted the libraries of Europe and they could never find another example of what is called a vonage script, and this was just baffling. I mean, how could there be no other example of this script? Well, it appears that what happened was someone created a synthetic alphabet and then in a mixture of medieval polyglot Flemish with a huge number of loan words in Old French, Middle High German, and Swedish, wrote down a sacramental manual for the dying in the Catharite sect. Now, what is the Catharite sect? You're probably familiar with something called the Albigensian Crusade. This was not a crusade carried on against the infidel for the recovery of Jerusalem, but rather a series of military actions carried on by the Pope against communities in southern France in the early 1200s, and these people were Catharites. They were, as far as we can tell, and we can't tell much because we only have descriptions of the Catharites written by the people who were burning them at the stake. In other words, no original Catharite documents survive. We just have what they screamed out on the rack as they were being put to death by the bishops of the church, and this was a horrific incident in European history. To give you the flavor of it, the Second Albigensian Crusade was prosecuted by a general of the Pope named Simon de Montfort, and his lieutenants came to him at a point, and some of you may have visited the city of Carcasson in southern France, which is a walled medieval city, very beautiful, and Simon de Montfort's lieutenants came to him and told him, they said, we have cornered the Catharites at Carcasson, but the problem is there are 6,000 Catholics within the city walls, and he said, kill everybody, God will recognize his own. So that was the spirit in which this thing went forth, and they did, they did. So what we do know about the Catharites is that they had a sacrament, the holiest, well, first let me tell you a little bit more about them. At first, it was thought that they were pretty much heterodox Christians. They were into nudity and vegetarianism. They sound like early hippies as far as we can tell. They got together, men and women, and they took off their clothes, they bathed, whether there were orgies or not, we don't know, they were vegetarians, and the one thing we do know was that they had a sacrament called the Consolamentum, and the Consolamentum was, it was ritualized vivisection, or not vivisection, the term escapes me, but anyway, when you were dying, a fellow Cathar would cut your wrists and open your veins in a warm bath of water, and you would die in that state. You did not die a natural death, and this was called the Consolamentum. Well, what Leo Levitoff is claiming is that the Vonage Manuscript is a description, a manual for the perfecti of the Catharite sect telling how to properly carry out the Consolamentum, and I see no reason to challenge it. I mean, even with my limited knowledge of German, once you get the vowel and the letter assignments right into this weird manuscript, into this weird language, and change it into English text, or, you know, alphabetic text is what I'm trying to say, you can see that there's enough German there, and then these loan words in Flemish and so forth. It looks to be true, and what emerges from this, if we accept the Vonage Manuscript as the only primary document on the Catharite faith is that this was not a form of heterodox Christianity at all, it was much more radical than that, and this may explain the church's fury at this group of people. It was a cult of Isis. It can be traced straight back into the mystery religions of Eo-Isis in Egypt, and I have not seen any critical commentary on Levitoff's work. It was, his book was published by this weird press in Redondo Beach that specializes only in books on military encryption. I mean, their catalog is a revelation to see. I mean, it's amazing, and the Vonage, the book on the Vonage Manuscript stands out like a sore thumb, because most of it is like three-letter dictionaries of three-letter words in Swahili and their numerical transforms and stuff like that. So that's the history to date of the Vonage Manuscript, and it's not that askew of our subject, because all of this heterodoxy in Europe blends together. The presence of Theodore de Bry as an alchemical printer in Heidelberg may be a clue, because there were survivals of this Catharite faith in the form of a heresy called the Brotherhood of the Free Spirit. If any of you are familiar with the altarpiece called The Garden of Earthly Delights by Hieronymus Bosch, it's thought that this was created by a commission for a congregation of the Brotherhood of the Free Spirit, and the Brotherhood of the Free Spirit was always associated for some reason, we don't know why, with printers. Printers.
 that seemed to be the profession that the Brotherhood favoured. And like the Catharites, they practised ritual nudity, vegetarianism, and gathering together in a ritual bath. If they would just let go of the whole idea complex, they would be liberated from this kind of minutia. So belief kills the spirit. The spirit transcends belief. So I wanted to say that. Then someone asked about Bruno and D. Since I suggested you read Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition, it's ironic that so little time was spent on Bruno. But on the other hand, I recommended you read the book so you should be well informed on Bruno. For me, Bruno, we just didn't get into that particular historical episode because I wanted to tell you about the Rosicrucian Enlightenment. But the thing to remember about Bruno is his discovery of the infinitude of the cosmos. And that by an act of unencumbered observation, I mean, how many people had looked at the night sky before Bruno and they had not seen what he saw, which was infinite space and suns hung like lamps unto the uttermost extremes of infinity. By an act of pure cognition, he was able to destroy an entire cosmological vision that had limited and confined the human soul for millennia. That's half of his story. The other half is he was burned at the stake for refusing to back down from this. And it's a model for us all that trust your perception, trust your intuition, and then accept the consequences because this is what existential validity must be. As far as the relationship between Dee and Bruno, the relationship is that they were both derivative of the magical school that can be traced back to Henri Cornelius Agrippa von Nettelsheim, who was the model for another model for Faust. Agrippa wrote De Libri Quattro, De Occultata Philosophia, four books of occult philosophy. And that was the core work for European magic. All magic is derivative. All European magic can be traced back to the Agrippan system. And Agrippa was the direct student of the abbot Trithemius of Sponheim that we mentioned yesterday as the source of all the magical codes in the Middle Ages. If you're interested in a brilliant but fictional treatment of John Dee and Giordano Bruno, I'd like to recommend a novel to you. It's called Egypt, spelled A-E-G-Y-P-T. It has the A in front of the E. It's by John Crowley, the same gentleman who wrote Little Big, which is a wonderful novel about the magical interface between two worlds. But his book Egypt, fully half of the book is given over to a wonderfully rich retelling of the relationship between Bruno and Dee. Now, some people have wanted to say that Dee and Bruno actually crossed physical paths in London. But I've looked into it, and they missed each other by about two weeks. Bruno was setting sail for England as Dee was setting sail for France in the Rosicrucian Enlightenment episode that I talked about. Then someone asked about Tantra and the contrast between the imaginative, internalized invocation of the anima or the animus, depending on your own sexuality, and that contrasted with something which actually happens between two people. We didn't talk that much about the concept of the chemical wedding, or the alchemical marriage is another way of putting it. But this is the Western resonance to the Eastern idea of Tantra. And it is the idea that sexual energy, being the rawest and most accessible energy to the organism, can be channeled into a higher spirituality. Well, it's entirely so. The problem is, of all paths, this is probably fraught with the greatest difficulty, because sexuality is such a debased coinage in the modern world. In other words, you have to make your way with great care and great purity of intent into this. In Eastern Tantra, that is actually practiced in this physical manner, usually the admonition is that you should have no attachment to your tantrika, that the relationship should be entirely given over to the technical details of this union. And of course, it has to do with the forestalling of orgasm and the raising of energy within the organism. In the chemical marriage, in the alchemical marriage, due honour is given to the importance and uniqueness of the other person. In other words, it isn't the idea of the temple prostitute who serves as the vessel for this process, but there's actually an effort to keep individual identities and individual dignity in some sense together. And this is, you know, the higher up the mountain you go, the steeper it becomes. And when you begin to scale the heights of alchemical or tantric sexuality, the fall back into the negredo can be shocking indeed. So that's just an admonition. It's not designed to scare you off. It's just to say that in an age as sexually obsessed as our own, you have to, as the I Ching says, inquire of the oracle once again if you have purity of intent. Okay. Yeah, Grace. There's also a feeling between the two? Yes, it's a complete alchemical system and the energy is passed between. This is probably the highest completion that is possible. You know, the idea of romantic love, I mean, I don't want to digress too much into this, but the ideal of romantic love was introduced into Europe in the 1400s and earlier at the Angervine court of Elinor of Aquitaine by troubadours. And this troubadour tradition, scholarship now reveals pretty convincingly that this is an esoteric Sufi system. It also occurs in Indian teachers such as Chaitanya. You know, Chaitanya is the guy who the Hare Krishnas go back to, but the radical teaching of Chaitanya was that you could achieve ecstasy not by sitting in yoga, but by dancing and singing on street corners. And it's now pretty clearly shown that the penetration of Sufi ideas into Bengal was happening at the same time that these Sufi ideas were coming across from North Africa and into Spain and Southern France. So it's a tremendously old and vital tradition, but you have to be very careful. The romantic impulse is a real double-edged sword. It has been ever since the early 19th century because you see the rise of romanticism as that term is normally understood, meaning the movements in art and literature of the early 19th century. The rise of romanticism was a response to the dehumanization that was happening.
 going on at that time, the rise of industrialism and the further retreat into cities more massive than any that had ever been built before. Did you want to say something, Michael? I was going to add that your question was about healing, and I think there's a tremendous difference between the Indian and Tibetan tantric systems in what is practiced in Taoism in terms of dual cultivation or single cultivation. In the Taoist system, certainly self-healing is of paramount importance before you can even consider dual cultivation. When the dual cultivation has then begun, then again, other considerations come in, but certainly in the Indian and Tibetan systems where dakinis and various deities are invoked in the process of their alchemical union, it's really quite different from the Taoist system, which is devoid of belief in gods. Yeah, that's a good point. You know, I talked yesterday about the alchemical stages. When you have reached the albedo, the final whitening of these processes, that final whitening is, from a higher perspective, a new negredo, and you must always build and build again. And so you have to be fairly confident that you have already realized a certain portion of yourself before you then embark on these tantric double experiments, because a lot of tantric text reads very vampire-radical. I mean, it's all about expelling the semen and then sucking it back in, and it's like an energy war. It turns into black magic. The losing partner in these deals has just left a withered husk, and this is not a higher completion to be sought for. You're correct. There is. In fact, there are supposedly, whether they're myths or documented stories about one Chinese empress who caused the death of more than a thousand men because of her vampirism. And it was sexual in nature. It was sexual in nature. Uh-huh. Okay, then a couple of other points here, and then we'll break up. The gentleman here who had nothing to comment or wanted to sit it out reminded me, since we were talking about the Valentinian system this morning, my favorite archon, aside from Sophia, who's so interesting because of the little story about how she made the universe. But the twelfth archon in the Gnostic system is a unique entity. I don't know of another religious system that has this notion. The twelfth archon in the Valentinian system is called the Watcher, and that's all he does. He does not input into the system at all, but is the witness. And somehow, then, this creates a validating dimension that is very important. So I just want to affirm that the Watcher is a very strong platform on which to stand. I mean, wood that I could learn to keep my mouth shut, wood that we all could. So the Watcher is a good archon to keep active on your inner altar. So then, the future occurs three times in the list, and we don't have a lot of time. But what I would like to say about it this morning is, if you extrapolate all that has been said here, then you should see that... Remember how I said that one view of alchemy was that the alchemist intervened in natural process in the role of a catalyst? For those of you who aren't chemists, a catalyst is something which causes a chemical reaction, which is going on anyway, to proceed at a faster rate. But the catalyst is not consumed in this process. It simply accelerates it. And if we think of nature as a great alchemical furnace that continuously produces and brings forth wonders, then must it not be that humanity is the yeast of the Gaian alchemical rarefaction, and that human history is the process of catalyzing the alchemical condensation? If we look back into nature before the advent of speaking and writing human beings in the last 15,000 years, what we see are very leisurely processes. I mean, the speciation of a single plant from another can occupy 50 or 60,000 years. It never happens more quickly than that. And the grinding down of glaciers from the poles, these are processes that take hundreds of thousands of years. With the advent of human beings, an entirely new ontos of becoming, an entirely new category of becoming is introduced into the entire cosmos, as far as we know, because we cannot verify that there are other self-reflecting beings in the universe. And this new ontos of becoming is what I call epigenetic, as opposed to genetic. All other change in the living world, in the world of bios, of zoa, it occurs through genetic change, random modification of the genome, which is then subject to random selection. But with the advent of speech and writing, epigenetic means outside genetics, epigenetic processes become possible, and time accelerates. One way of thinking about what is happening in this cosmos is that it is a gradual conquest of dimensionality by becoming or process. I mean, we hardly have a word inclusive enough. The earliest forms of life were probably slimes on certain kinds of clay, self-replicating molecular systems. And then certain portions of this chemistry became light sensitive. And then there was the sense of the division between light and darkness, which generated the notion of here and there on some tremendously basic level within these early organisms. Once you have the concept of here and there, motility, the ability to move, the cilia that dot the surfaces of protozoans and stuff like this are elaborated, and a new dimension enters the picture, the dimension of time. Because notice that a journey from here to there is a journey from now to then. And then as more refined perceptual apparatus arose and more refined systems of moving animal bodies arose, a steady conquest of dimensionality occurred, the movement of animals onto the land and so forth. Well then, with the advent of memory, and memory must be mediated by language except at a very crude, instinctual level, memory is a time-binding function. It's a way of somehow taking the past and calling up its essential properties so that they are co-present with the given moment of experience. And when you, it's one thing at the level of the song and dance of pre-literate peoples, but once you begin to chisel stone and write books, then you're into the epigenetic domain in a big way. And once you cross the threshold into the world of electronic media and that sort of thing, once you achieve powered flight, once you can hurl instruments outside the solar system, these are time-binding functions. And the alchemical intent, recall, was to accelerate nature's intent toward perfection. And the alchemists all believed that nature was growing
 toward a state of unity and perfection that, given millions and millions of years, everything would turn to gold. Everything would find its way toward the Plotinian One. So now we live in a world that appears to be on the brink of its own death or extinction, and the reason we make that assumption is because our bridges are burning behind us. We see no way back to the world of the hunting and gathering pastoralists of the high Paleolithic of the Saharan grasslands. We see no way back to, you know, the Gothic piety of a Europe with under 30 million people in it. Our bridges are burning, and our religionsIslam, Judaism, Christianitythe major Western religions persistently insist that we are caught in a tightening spiral of ever-increasing speed that is carrying us toward an unimaginable confrontation with something which they call God, the Second Coming, the Messiah, you name it. As cool-headed a rationalist as Arnold Toynbee, when he sat down to write a study of history, he finally had to face the question, what is history for? And the, you know, the best he could come up with is, history must be about the entry of God into the domain of three-dimensional space. Well, we don't know what God is. Let's not call it God. Let's call it the Philosopher's Stone. Let's call it the Sophic Hydrolith. And I believe that the chaos of our world, the apocalyptic intuition that informs our religions and our dreams, is because ahead of us in time, and now not that far ahead of us in time, is something which, taking a page from the mathematical concern called dynamics, we can call an attractor. The attractor lies ahead of us in time. Universal process is not driven by a downward cascade of Cartesian casuistry. That's the scientific notion, and it leads to a universe of entropy and heat death millions of years in the future. But what we see around us is a continuing and accelerating complexification as human beings, machines, ecosystems, the solar system itself is beginning to knit itself into a tighter and tighter organization. I believe that alchemy provides the best metaphors for understanding this. Nature is the great alchemist par excellence, and we as its minions, through history, are accelerating the condensation of being toward the unimaginable. So that in my system, my way of thinking, there's ultimately a symmetry break with ordinary history. And I call it all kinds of different things, but here this morning, the transcendent other. The transcendent other casts an enormous shadow across the lower dimensional landscape of time. The stirring of the earliest life forms in the Devonian seas caught the call, and every step that has been taken since then has been ever quicker, ever quicker toward the transcendental other. It beckons us, and history is haunted by this thing. History is the shockwave of eschatology. History is a process that lasts, let's be generous, 25,000 years. The wink of an eye in geological time. And in that 25,000 years, religious systems rise and fall, governmental systems, teachers come and go, and there is a sense of being caught in a whirlpool that is spinning us toward fusion with the unimaginable. And this is why the skies of Earth are haunted by flying saucers. They aren't coming from other solar systems. They are scintillas, remember this alchemical term, sparks, they are scintillas being thrown off from the alchemical quintessence which lies like a great attractor at the end of time. And the purpose of science and technique and electronic media and information transfer and all of this stuff is to knit us together, to dissolve our boundaries, and to bring us to a point of singularity where language fails, where we lean over meaning's edge and feel the dizziness of things unsaid. And this lies now, I believe, within our lifetimes, within the lifetime of most of us, this is actually going to break through. I mean, I'm like one of those people carrying a sign that says repent for the end is near. It's as nutty a position as you can possibly hold. That's why I suspect it has a reasonable chance of being dead on. So that is the the point of talking about alchemy and this melding and the production of the quintessence and all that. It is because we are a gnat's eyelash away from a full confrontation with the transcendent other. Our dreams are haunted by it. Our reveries are filled with it. If we take a psychedelic drug, it's revealed before us in all its splendor. This is the force that is pulling us inexorably toward completion. I remember once in a psilocybin trance, I expressed concern about the state of the world and the noose spoke, the logo spoke, and it said no big deal. This is what it's like when a species prepares to depart for the stars. We are in the birth canal of a planetary birthing. And as you know, if you come upon a birth in progress, you would never dream that this is the culmination of a natural process. It looks like a catastrophe of some sort. There is moaning and groaning and screaming and thrashing and blood is being shed and there is a feeling of the walls are closing in and yet it is in scripted into each of us as a microcosmic reflection of the completion of human history and not only human history because we are simply the hands and eyes of all life, all process on this planet. The Gnostics believe that the earth is like an egg and that a moment will come when the egg must be split asunder. You know, I love to quote the the Grateful Dead, you can't go back and you can't stand still. If the thunder don't get you then the lightning will. That is what we are being funneled toward. That is the message of alchemy. That is the quintessence and perfection of the human enterprise, the biological enterprise. I like to recall the Irish toast, may you be alive at the end of the world and we have a real crack at it. It's not a pessimistic vision, it's the most optimistic vision that one can suppose and I think that's where I'd like to leave it this morning. You're listening to the Psychedelic Salon where people are changing their lives one thought at a time. So 25 years ago Terence thought that he and those who were there with him at the time may actually still be alive at the end of the world. Sadly Terence didn't make it himself and the world is still going but I suspect that most of the other people who attended that workshop are still with us and it doesn't take too close a look at the world situation to infer that well maybe we should all be carrying signs that say repent the end is near. Of course it all depends on what one thinks of as being near doesn't it. Well this is the last of the tapes from Terence's May 1991 workshop that dealt with alchemy and
 the Hermetic Corpus. And from some of the comments that I've been seeing, you might have enjoyed it as much as I have. In the next few weeks I'll be playing talks from several other people, but have no fear, there's still more of Terrence McKenna to come this year. And if you still want to listen to more about alchemy from Terrence, you can go back and re-listen to podcasts 223 through 226 which were titled, McKenna, Hermeticism and Alchemy. And now I'd like to welcome our new readers to the Psychedelic Salon magazine on Flipboard.com. If you're ever up late at night and can't get to sleep, you'll now find over 1,400 articles posted there, and that should keep you busy until the sun comes back up. Now here are the titles of a few news stories that I've posted over the last several days. 6 Branding Tips Unique to Cannabisness Americans Will Spend $23 Billion a Year on Legal Weed by 2020 Pot Legalization Hasn't Done Anything to Shrink the Racial Gap in Drug Arrests Supreme Court Rejects State's Challenge to Colorado Pot Law First Month of Recreational Weed Sales in Oregon Generates $3.5 Million in Tax Revenues The Three Most Important Marijuana Battleground States in This Year's Elections The Real but Exaggerated Danger of Stoned Driving Put Weed in Your Ceviche for Next Level Weekend Vibes 5 Reasons Blue Dream is the Most Popular Marijuana Strain and 5 Substances that are Far More Addictive than Marijuana and that are Legal Action Bronson at a High Tech Cannabis Lab Whipping Up Dabs Are You Surprised to Know that Black Americans are Systematically Shut Out of the Legal Weed Industry? Vaping Weed is Good for Your Skin A $200 Blunt and Other Products from the World of High End Weed NFL Lineman Gives $10,000 to Marijuana Research and Urges the League to Match the Donation How Potent is that Pot Brownie? Dry Ice in a Blender Might Crack the Case And Mathematician Compares DMT Experience with LSD Experience Which is about our old friend Ralph Abraham of whom there are almost 50 Podcasts here in the Salon And before I go, I'd like to remind you once again that right after I sign off, I'll play that 20 minutes of today's talk that I had to cut out due to the poor quality of the recording. I hope that if you listen to it, that you'll find something there worth your time. And for now, this is Lorenzo, signing off from Cyberdellic Space, be well my friends. There is much still to be learned and still to be teased apart in the art history and the history of heterodox thinking in Europe of which alchemy then is seen to be one facet of a faceted gem that includes the Brotherhood of the Free Spirit, early Freemasonry, catharites, survivals of Manichaeanism, Bogomils in Yugoslavia, there are Bogomilvostrian graves on the southern coast of Thessalonica and just a whole zoo of intellectual systems that have been forgotten and overlooked. This is what I meant when I said we will explore the stratigraphy of lost thought systems. And in some cases, we possess quite complete skeletons. In the case of alchemy, in the case of the Bogomils and the Cathars, what we possess is almost a foot bone or a tooth or a footprint. But someday, with luck, new textual material will emerge and a new understanding of the role of heterodoxy in the formation of modern thought will emerge. Questions? Yes, and bless you. The Born in Blood book on Freemasonry has just recently been published and I've just about finished it. This person is an ideal English historian from Kentucky in this country and I think he's sort of solved the problem of Freemasonry as well, which is a very interesting history because the Masonic historians themselves have been writing about this for a couple hundred years. So it's strange that this Vonage Manuscript should be all of a sudden, in the last couple of years, sort of resolved. And it seems that this Freemasonry thing is also. Yes, you make an interesting point. John brought me, John Glavis brought me an article yesterday. You know, we're all tied up now in this Pluto return. I'm not an astrologer, but John brought me an article talking about how, I don't know whether it was the last time or the time before last that the Pluto return occurred, is precisely the 1490s, the period that we're talking about when the Corpus Hermeticum was translated. And we are now in a period that is astrologically exactly equivalent to that period. And the Vonage Manuscript appears to have been deciphered. I mean, I'm willing to accept it. You mentioned this revelation of the true nature of Freemasonry, and of course what is going on at the moment that is askew of our subject, but tremendously exciting and relevant to the idea of lost knowledge coming to light, is that this is the golden moment in Mayan studies. It is happening right now, day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute. The logjam has been broken. The Mayan glyphs are being deciphered. No shit. And it has to do with an entirely new approach that some Russian linguists have taken. And if any of you are, it will never happen again. So far as I know, there are now, with the Mayan decipherment, no real undeciphered languages left. The Harappan script was deciphered a few years ago, but really it wasn't that interesting because we only possessed something like 6,000 characters in Harappan. But the literature of the Maya, when you take not only the hieroglyphic, the stone texts, but when you add in the ceramic texts, why we have a lot of Mayan material, and it is being deciphered at a furious rate. If you're interested in this, Linda Scheel has written a book called A Forest of Kings. And what a, how I do envy this woman, because what she is doing is writing the first history of the Maya in a thousand years. I mean, this is not, we're not now dealing in the realm of gods and myths. We're dealing with stuff like on the 14th of May, 642, an army from El Caracol met an army from Tikal and triumphed and deposed three flint and placed on the throne. It's this kind of stuff, real history. And the conceits of Mayan religion and Mayan courtly life are all coming into focus. And it's very exciting. It's all these people who have tried to make the Maya into some kind of Atlantean civilization should be running for cover at this point, because the picture that emerges is not as pretty as we might wish.
 hey, know the truth and the truth shall set you free. I would choose truth over illusion anytime, no matter how damaging it might be to somebody's conceptions of these things. So, and if any of you are interested in these subjects, another area where this has occurred is, some of you may know the book by Michael Chadwick called The Decipherment of Linear B. Linear B is a proto-Minoan language and a linguist at Cambridge named Michael Ventris, a genius in the 50s, took this language. There was no Rosetta Stone. This is the amazing thing. You know what I mean by a Rosetta Stone? You see, in the 19th century, the great mystery was how to read the Egyptian hieroglyphs. And before they were deciphered, the Egyptians were treated like the Maya and people thought that the secrets of the universe were chiseled on those obelisks and tombs. Well, then, a scholar in the Grand Army of Napoleon, Champillon, was a soldier, found a tablet which had a column of Demotic Greek, a column of another language, I forget which one, and a column of Egyptian hieroglyphs and they were able to realize that it was saying the same thing three times and that opened it up for them. But that's like a crib sheet because it's easy if you have the same text in a known language. But in the case of the Maya and in the case of Linear B and in the case of Harappan, there was no Rosetta Stone. Well, then, you talk about an excruciatingly difficult problem to solve and I'll explain to you how it was done with the Maya because it's so neat. It turns out that Mayan is a rebus language. What does this mean? Do you remember when we were kids and in comic books, there would be these things where it would show a picture of an eye and then it would show a picture of a saw going through a log of wood and then it would show a picture of an ant and then it would show a picture of a red rose. This is a sentence which says, I saw aunt rose. But now notice what's going on here. It's that it's all based on puns that depend entirely on a knowledge of the spoken language. If you lose the sounds of the spoken language, how the hell could you ever tell that a picture of an eye, a saw, an insect and a rose says, I saw my maternal relative on my mother's side. I mean, it just is impossible. It's absolutely impossible in that situation to reconstruct meaning unless you have the sounds. Well, how do you recover the sounds of a language dead a thousand years? Well, these Soviet linguists had the good sense to go and look at living Mayan languages of which there are 15 living Mayan languages in the Americas and they discovered one of these dialects where when you set Mayan hieroglyphs in front of these people and they named what they saw, meaning came out of their mouths and that broke the log jam. And then, you know, you just rev up your computers and use all the standard tools of modern linguistics and philology and the stuff just begins to pour out clear as day, no problem. They asked the Mayan. Yes, they had to go to a Mayan. You're right, good point. It had never occurred to them. Because they always, always before when they would show this stuff to Mayans, they would say, what does it mean? Instead of saying, what do you see here? And then when they said what they saw there, then meaning came out of their mouths. So it was very, very neat. It shows once again the hubris of modern scientific methods that we tend to dismiss the aboriginal and the primitive. I mean, this was to turn it toward my own favorite subject. This was the state of modern medicine. Nobody would ask people in the Amazon basin, you know, what plants do you use for malaria, brain tumor, shrinkage and so forth and so on because they were just dismissed as superstitious primitives. It was thought that the doctrine of signatures was operating. They didn't realize how subtle and how complete human knowledge systems grow under the care of those people for whom it really matters. Is there anything that needs to be said about this? The redemption, the project of the redemption of spirit from matter turned into the project of redeeming the general society of the time toward a utopian vision. And this is working right up until the present. Millenarianism is still with us. Marxism is the last great millenarian faith, you know, the belief in the worker state. It occupies the same relationship to these alchemical utopias as Heideggerian existentialism has to second century Gnosticism. The poetry has gone. The Baroque filigree has been stripped away, but the impulse is still toward a perfect society where each from his ability according to his needs and means. And it lives on. I mean, democracy is also an effort, let us not forget, to recapture the style of fifth century Athens. I mean, we forget that this was a city-state, half of whose inhabitants were slaves, and yet we are so under the spell of the utopian dream that we continue, and not without important reason, I think, to try to labor toward a just and decent world where the lion lies down with the lamb. And that was and it remains the alchemical dream. I very much enjoy the flashbacks to memories of when I actually majored in history in college, and the first history professor that I had was a wonderful old man that really, when I now look back at it, it was about the history of ideas. The rest of my major in history was pretty much politics and all this kind of thing. It's kind of a wonderful experience to suddenly get back to what got me turned on about history and what gets me turned on and opens my mind again and to look at some of these thoughts and some of these things that have been forgotten, suppressed, or put down, and say that's bullshit, that's a traditionally trained scientist, and so on. It opens my eyes to the fact that, yes, there are plenty of things that we can't learn from what's gone before, all the great ideas that are out there, we just have to grasp them and find what's right and apply it. I, too, am interested in how we make this more meaningful in the future. One thing that occurs to me to say, I once, in one of these revelations,
 with the logos, asked the question, why me? Why are you telling me this? Because my, you know, I was a poor hippie, I was penniless, I was a traveler, and the answer was instantaneous. Because it was because you don't believe in anything. Because you don't believe in anything. And I think that that's a very pure position to hold. We're not trying to ensnare you to abandon your Jewishness or your Presbyterianness or belief, if you believe in something you have precluded the possibility of believing in its opposite. And you have hence limited your freedom. Everything is to be judged by its efficacy, by its effectiveness in the real world. And I think that I have a horror of all belief systems. I just don't like them. If somebody tells you they have the answer, flee from this person. I mean, they are obviously some kind of low being who has not at all recognized the true size and dimension of the cosmos that we're living in. And if you can keep yourself free of encumbering beliefs, then your dialogue with the logos can go forward unhindered. Sometimes when I am in the trance of psilocybin, I will say to the entity, begin to show me yourself as you are for yourself. Don't give me the scaled-down, humanized version. Begin to show your true nature. And after a few moments of that, then I have to raise my hand and say, I can't handle more than that. This goes back to the statement made yesterday or the day before about that the universe is not only stranger than we suppose, it's stranger than we can suppose. Therefore, we are given tremendous latitude in what we think and what we conceive. But if you begin to believe something, then you are pulled down because every belief has consequences. A perfect example is, as some of you may know, when Muhammad ascended into heaven from the site of what was to become the Mosque of Omar from the site of the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem, he happened to be on horseback. Well, if you believe Muhammad ascended into heaven, imagine the theological and hermeneutic problems posed by the horse he was riding because it went with him. This is a perfect example of how intellectual baggage drags us down because belief always then contains absurdity. I mean, the ontological status of this horse has troubled Islamic theologians for centuries. For more information visit www.osho.com

Terence McKenna ~ An Ocean Of Ideas ~ 1989

That's right. Yeah, we had samples that were five years old that were absolutely terrifying to take Yeah, well, I don't know I Got into trouble it was one of those situations I had a curandero friend Don Fidel Mozambique in Pucallpa And he had given me this bottle of ayahuasca as a going-away present And I had kept it for like five years so in five years You forget what the details are and I got it out to turn myself and these two other people on and I couldn't remember Whether he said always shake the bottle or never shake And there was about an inch and a half of sediment in the bottom of this thing so I said well reasoning Pharmacologically it's better to shake it than not to shake it so I shook it furiously and then I Can't remember what it was I think I had taken it the week before a different batch So I thought maybe I picked up a little tolerance, so I said well, maybe I picked up a little tolerance Let's just go instead of the normal hundred milliliters Let's go for 120 and so then I instructed these people that it would come on in about an hour and 20 minutes And so forth well 15 minutes into it. They were both unable to speak and You know it went from there I mean, I felt like I was strapped on a gurney being rushed through the Egyptian after world Colonnaded pillars were streaking past me. Oh God headed for the scales I Don't know man. I don't know that one felt that was a lip buzzing One I felt that that was coming close to overdose it went on for a long long time and and Finally four hours into it or something we turned on some lights And there were those fan-shaped little shmiggies Well, I hadn't seen those since I gave up LSD 10 years ago You know those little things that with the lights on or on the walls going you mean Meaning meaning that bit so it was pretty it was pretty intense I I think the great thing is you know you all we always come out of it in great shape Ken's right you feel better the day after than if you hadn't done it Which is what drug can you say that of you know that the end result is an energy? Plus Well see I think that We're on the edge of ayahuasca and that what this what the what they say if you really get down with them Is that the diet is everything and that you're a tourist and you're here for a few weeks And yes, we'll give you ayahuasca, but what this is really about is Controlling diet over a period of months even years and taking a regular regimen of this stuff and transforming yourself into some kind of other Person and Ken's very right the these people have some kind of Authenticity that you can absolutely feel it's in the voice I met many ayahuasca arrows and the good ones all had this voice thing going on that they could cast their voice way back in their throat, and they kind of purr and They just are Very realized beings and they have nothing you know I mean you talk about Marginal, but there's real Authenticity there. I would like to go back and and Work with this diet and try to understand this because I think see This all does tie in with what we talked about this morning about the partnership Society in Africa and that whole bit because I think this ayahuasca thing is the last Living remnant of this kind of way of relating to nature Because in the heavy ayahuasca using societies these people are saturated in this stuff I mean as Ken says three times a week, and it's really Changing how they look at the world and they are you know? in empathy at Equilibrium aware of the ebb and flow of appropriate energy in the situation So it it's interesting to me. You know that in the new world a human group could have Re-established this partnership paradise in a situation an environment which quite closely parallels the African situation of 20,000 years ago in other words. It's a continent covered by forests and in this extremely Floristically rich environment these people have gotten together the the fix the fix So that humanness feels good and isn't it interesting that the fix turns out to be not a drug but a shifting of the ratios of neurotransmitters already present in the organism as Though you know we're just out of tune We have evolved out of tune There's an enzyme problem That is caused us to fail to suppress the ego and then this creates a spectrum of cultural effects that drives us all nuts and And so they have a kind of psycholytic therapy to to correct that Oh, yeah, they claim to know all about it And you'll go way up some river and With these people will say where are you from say? I'm from San Francisco, California Say oh, I I know there. I go there on ayahuasca Hills two bridges that place say that's the place they say listen I know it, but they make bigger claims. You know I mean they go to the center of the Milky Way That was the original claim that had me hot-footing down To see what what was going on and you know they have a they have a hidden topology a shamanic world That is real They're mapping the same dimension that we're punching through to on DMT I mean if that seems strange to you that there could that half the world could be out of sight as it Were you have to remember that? This October we discussed we celebrated the 500th anniversary of the discovery of America or rather we will in 1992 means as recently as 500 years ago this half of the planet was unknown To anybody well is there any other is there any reason that precludes that we could be as ignorant of? What's going on? I don't think so It's just that this new world is a new world in the mind You have to bear in mind when you're thinking about all this that nobody knows what mind is None of these fancy-pants Academics or reductionist no one can explain for example how you can look at your open hand form the notion of closing it into a fist and Have it happen This is a philosophical miracle from the point of view of modern science modern science says that mind cannot influence matter and yet It's clearly trivial to open and close your fist on Decision yes, it's trivial, but we have no notion of how this is possible how will can initiate Activity that is transduced down into the mechanical motion of moving bodies around We don't even know at this late date in the study of the brain whether thought originates In the brain, it's equally plausible to suppose that the brain is some kind of antenna That it is it no more contains the contents of the mind Than that a television set contains the contents of the three major networks It may not work like that. It may be that you know mind is some kind of generalized phenomenon that all life attempts to take part in so that the idea of my mind and your mind may be a Basement of language there may simply be a mind which we evolve toward an Awareness of and then you get to use part of it the way a user uses a computer network But it is no more the sun that the sum total of the network is in the brain so and psychedelics address this entirely mysterious area the area of thought and cognition and I mean we don't really have good models for what this is, but now we have an excellent tool for Deconstructing mind for watching it go
 through all kinds of formative flip-flops. I mean, I've seen really what seemed to me amazing things on psychedelics that must bear on the problem of the genesis and stability of meaning. For instance, I've had experiences where, you know how in Times Square there's the flasher that moves along the building that has the latest news? Well, I've seen English text moving along before my eyes, and then it will begin to informationally degrade, like every 20th letter will be transposed or replaced, and then every 10th letter, and then every fifth letter, until finally I'm just watching gibberish flow by. Well, is this a hallucination, or is this an insight into the mechanics of meaning itself? What is this kind of stuff, and can we take it seriously? The problem with studying hallucinogens is only the physiological parameters have been deemed worthy of interest. You know, what does it do to blood pressure? What does it do to your response to these five standardized questions? They don't want to correlate the massive data represented by individual tales, but when you get a group of people like this together, you know, there is fair confirmation of a pretty outlandish data set. I mean, how many people here have encountered non-human entities, or what appeared to be non-human entities on a psychedelic? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, you know, more than half of us. Well, what does the other half of you think about that? I mean, well, something that at first, second, and third glance does not appear to be at all like Aunt Minnie. In other words, if it's smaller than a breadbox, or not made of matter, and it's talking to you, it's a safe bet it's a non-human entity of some sort, right? So those of you who haven't had this experience, see, the thing to put across is there's so much loose-headedness in the world, and this is really a stumbling block for psychedelics, because we have people claiming to channel 11,000 year old Central Asian herders who have a message for mankind, and we have people who are in contact with all kinds of entities with weird names, and so then the people who don't do psychedelics say, well, this is something, it's like channeling, or all this other stuff. No, it isn't, because we are not like those people. I mean, I maintain this rigorously, that our bit is intellectual rigor, not air-headedness. We're willing to put as much pressure on the ideas as you want, we just believe in fairness, so that it's not ipso facto that there's no such thing as elves, it's that if you think there are elves, prove it to me. Well, then the problem is that the skeptic, the critic, says, well, the notion that there are elves is just, you know, you're sadly deluded, you're living in your own private Idaho. But then you say, well, the proof of the pudding is a 15-minute DMT trip. Are you willing to carry on this criticism after having made the experiment, sir? I mean, we're not like UFO enthusiasts, we're not telling you to stand in cornfields in the dead of night and pray. No, no, this will work. This will work on you, you, the reductionist, you, the doubter, you, the constipated, egomaniacal, father-dominator. It'll work, and then they just, and they, and they say at that point, you know, you are a menace, is what you are. Because there's no place else to go with that game. You have to say, you know, you and your ideas are illegal, or they say, well, I guess I'll have to just try it. And that's the point, that's the point where we've come to, is to slowly try and create a consensus. One of the things that Ken said, quoting the teacher, that is very profound, is that words are alive, and that they multiply. And at every recent workshop I've given, I've talked about the notion of memes. And those of you who have heard it, it's okay to hear it again, because this is the political baggage of this trip. It's that, first of all, do you all know what a meme is? A meme is to information, as a gene is to genetic information. So the way to think of a meme is, it's the smallest unit that an idea can be broken down into, without losing its coherency. Ideas are made of memes. And memes, like genes, compete in an environment very much like the environment in which Darwinian natural selection goes on. So a new idea is a meme, and it immediately begins to compete with other memes in the ideological environment. And the psychedelic meme is such a meme. Now the way, one profound way in which memes are like genes, is genes can be copied. They can be replicated. They can be passed around. So can memes. When I tell you something which you remember, I have taken a meme, and if 15 of you remember it, I have propagated the meme to 15 new individuals. Each one of them is capable of now passing this meme along, provided they replicate it with sufficient fidelity. And this is a problem of information degradation, that if the meme is not reinforced, it peters out. And someone says, well what did so-and-so say? And then you get a version that, you know, is unrecognizable. I have this experience all the time, because people come up to me and say, you know, I thought it was wonderful where you said that, and then they break out with something not only that I've never said, but that I never could have conceived of, and probably don't agree with. So keeping the meme straight is very important. And the psychedelic meme is competitive with, you know, the just say no meme, for example. And I believe that on a level playing field, the most open-ended memes will prevail. That what is a good meme? A good meme is a meme that doesn't foreclose its options. Because as soon as you have a closed cycle of explanation, whether it's Egyptian theology or Marxist-Leninism, there's no way out, you know. It's like Gdel's incommensurability theorem. No formal system can generate all possible formal statements within the system. In order to keep that option open, you have to preserve a lack of closure. And this is one of the things about the dominator ego that makes it a little like being stupid to be under the influence of the dominator ego. It always searches for closure. It always wants to bring things around and close off the explanatory cycle because it interprets open-endedness as a kind of threat, a feminine upwelling or a boundary dissolving influence. So it's very concerned to generate some kind of closure. That's why we always hear about the unified field theory and the end of history and this and that. These dominator models seek finality. The trick is to live in the presence of the mystery, not as an unsolved problem, but as a force for personal transformation. By knowing that the mystery exists, we are empowered to relate to it and to nurture the mystery within ourselves. In other words, you don't kill being. The theory kills. The letter kills. The real facts of the stuff of being are locked in the primacy of immediate experience. And this is why the psychedelics are so powerful because this is what they address. It's not an idea. It's not an ideology. It's a transformation of the felt presence of immediate experience. The other two things which do that are birth and death. And then romantic overwhelmment has another part to play. But this is the biggie, the felt, the transformation of the felt experience of the self. And by reclaiming that, we dissolve hierarchical structure and we actually emerge into our full expression as human beings. I don't see how this can be done without psychedelics. It's dinnertime, but we'll take one question.
 Since you've done so much with psychedelics, have you been able to get to some of those states now without the use of psychedelics? The only progress I've made in that area is this glossolalia, which you heard me do this morning. I used to only be able to hear it when I was stoned, and then I used to only be able to do it when I was stoned. And now it's some kind of creode in me. But it doesn't, when I do it for you, it doesn't feel like it feels when I do it on five grams of psilocybin. Generally, I resist the idea that there's some other way to do it. I think it's just a waste of time. If there is some other way to do it, you may be sure it takes a long time and is excruciating. I would be alarmed if psychedelic phenomena began to intrude into my normal waking existence. Because it isn't a state of enlightenment or at-one-ment or clarity. Those are lower levels of it. But the full-on thing is so intense that it's very reassuring to know that a substance is doing this, and that when the substance goes away, the phenomenon will go away. It's so radically different from ordinary reality. I marvel that we sit in rooms like this and talk about this. Just close your eyes for a moment and imagine what it's like to be smashed. And it's so different from this. And yet we're operating here at a pretty high level of efficiency. Everybody's focused. Half of us at least are awake. But it's completely different. And I don't know if you can understand being stoned by talking about it. You can create a communal empowerment that is permission. But Plotinus called the mystical experience the flight of the alone to the alone. And there's something to that. Well I think we bring back maps of the foothills, and that's very useful. But the private Mount Everests and Jungfraus that we scale, there's no words for it. There are no words for it. Every single person who has delved into these regions has gazed upon vistas that no human being had ever seen before or will ever see again. I mean the universe is that huge that that's possible. Okay, well I'll just start while we get this thing up and running. And I'll try to make it succinct if I can. The notion here as how this relates to the rest of the workshop has to do with my belief that the really important thing that can be done with psychedelics in a generalized sense is that they are inspiration for ideas. And that when you sail out into the psychedelic dimension, you're sailing out onto an ocean of ideas, and you can lower your nets. And there are many minnows and few whales, but the goal is to bring up something middle-sized that is both astonishing but non-lethal that you can wrestle into your intellectual life. And so over the years, especially since 1971, I have been sort of the victim of an obsessive idea that I have developed to great lengths. And the inspiration for this idea is all this time spent in the psychedelic dimension. Nevertheless, I wouldn't have to say that. I could just claim to be a kind of incipient or idiot savant who had dreamed up this thing. But I tell you, it springs from an attempt to understand the psychedelic vision. Generally the idea is this. It hypothesizes a quality to reality that science has never recognized or discussed. And the quality is called novelty. And novelty is something which knits the world together and creates new emergent properties out of the densification of previous states of existence. Novelty is the force which caused stars to condense out of a primal cloud of energy, caused planets or this planet to evolve life, caused life to leave the oceans, caused humanity to emerge out of animal organization, high culture out of previous culture, so forth and so on. And it's a morally neutral force. It isn't good. It isn't bad. It just is a tendency in the universe to conserve complexity and to build ever more complex phenomena by incorporating lower levels of complexity into higher levels of organization. And this is how biology works and it's how the physical sciences work. And I noticed that if you think about the career of novelty as the life of the universe and you see the primal explosion, its condensation into the primitive galaxies, the condense at lower and lower temperatures, what is happening is more and more complex phenomena become possible because at very high temperatures, atomic particles can't even settle in to stable orbits around the nucleus and form atoms. Then eventually atomic chemistry does become possible. At still lower temperatures, the molecular bond can form and life can emerge. And then within the regime of temperatures and pressures that life operates, complexity proliferates very rapidly and always conserving itself, always building on the previous levels. So I thought that this was very interesting and that it could be mathematically modeled. I noticed that each threshold into deeper novelty takes place ever more rapidly so that novelty in the career of novelty in the world can be said to be speeding up. And I take 20th century culture then to be not epiphenomenal but proof of this theorem that the world is getting spun at a higher and higher rate, that novel phenomena, novel effects are proliferating ever more rapidly. Okay, so that's the general notion. Well, you know, a fantasy about how can we imagine any way to save the world and just without regard to the rules of reason particularly, an obvious solution is why not make everybody an inch and a half high? And this apparently utterly ludicrous idea can be pursued slightly further because the creatures in the DMT place are small. That's one of the main features about them. They're small and when we talked about them we said it would be parsimonious to suppose that they might be from the future. Well is it possible that the destiny of the human race is to become an extremely diminutive species that lives in a solid state matrix inside hills and that this is where we're going? We're just going into the mountains, sinking away from the surface into the kind of solid state crystalline matrix that we know the earth to be. I mean, I don't have a lot attached to this. It's sort of charming, sort of bananas. I mean, but the weird feeling of recognition and wonderment that you have in the presence of these DMT creatures may mean that they are a future state of humanity. And this peculiar aura that goes with the experience where you can tell you're underground, you're way, way underground. It's a gnome, a gnomic existence. And these jeweled machines and toys which they offer you, the mythology of gnomes is that they are master tinkerers. They build wonderful objects.
 So, you know, maybe when the world really becomes alarmed, all kinds of possibilities can be found for a sane human future. This is maybe a good thing to leave you with or to talk about in the final meeting. You know, we generally pretty much strive for agreement, but there are certain key points where I haven't seen how you can have it both ways. And one is this whole issue of artificiality versus the natural world. How can we imagine a future that both honors the human world and the natural world when there are so many of us? I mean, turning everybody into the size of a fruit fly is one possibility, but we haven't been making a lot of progress along this line of research recently, so it doesn't look like it's a near-term thing. Well then, the more sophisticated version of that is, can the human entelechy be downloaded into circuitry? Can we somehow have an existence that we would recognize as an existence without a body? And do we want that, and what is that like, and what does it say about our souls if we choose that? You know, these are pretty strange questions. What is human nature in the absolute absence of nature? You know, a very interesting fantasy that you can undertake as a lifetime projectI do this all the timeis to imagine what you would make the world be like if it could be any way you wanted. And you know, in the first half hour of exercising this fantasy, you realize that all our imaginings are conditioned by the constraints of matter. I mean, so you start out and you say, well, if I could have anything, oh, I don't know, I guess I'd live in the Frank Lloyd Wright waterfall house and have my Testa Rosa parked outside. And then you realize, you know, that this is a stupid fantasy, and that you could live in the Leningrad Library if you wanted and have your space shuttle parked outside. And then you realize, that's a stupid fantasy. And then you realize, you know, that there are no limits, that if mind were not constrained by the rules of physics, we don't know what we are. We don't know the castles that we would build in the air. One of the interesting things about virtual reality is the idea that we're going to be able to wander among the three-dimensional constructions of the imagination with no concern whatsoever for cost-effective use of materials, because materials are electrons and light and computer commands. It costs no more to have a gothic cathedral than to have a stucco duplex. So you know, it's a... I think that the future of humanity must be in the imagination, that somehow the imagination is a place, it's a world, it's a straw being extended by the overmind to a drowning person. And we have to somehow marshal our wherewithal to march off into the imagination, because it's the only safe haven there is. What we are cannot be unleashed on the surface of a planet without destroying that planet. I mean, we've only possessed serious technology for a hundred years. You know, before that, nobody had nothing. I mean, it was a big chore to melt metal and stuff like that. The big guns of being able to push matter and energy around on any significant scale have only been in our hands since 1945. And look, the planet is a complete mess. So if we envision an existence of hundreds of years and any kind of future for ourselves, we're going to have to make some major choices. Are we the stewards of the Earth to become kind of togad gardeners of a world reborn? Or are we, is it our Viking plunder genes? Do we want to build starships the size of Rhode Island and set out for Alpha Centauri with plans to strike deeper into the nearby galaxy? What is it going to be? Or are these fantasies based on driving the future car using only the rearview mirror? Are there sideways options? What about these elf, fairy, other dimensions? How seriously can we take that? What about getting into the imagination through a kind of perfection of yoga? Can all these things that have always been reserved for beady-eyed holy people be democratized so they have impact in everybody's everyday life? Is that a possibility? You know, what has to happen is an abandonment of the idea that only certain classes of solutions will be considered. Like currently in the world, the only class of solutions that can be considered for any problem are solutions which make a buck. That's the main idea. And I already hear that the defense industrial complex is going to transform itself into the industrial detoxification complex. And they will just take those huge military budgets and use all that money now to clean up the mess they made creating the weapons that now have to be destroyed in order to make a sane world. Is this nutty or what? I mean, it's like putting Nazis in charge of a Jewish resettlement program. You can't understand the thinking at all, you know? So the bad news for people who like to just roll a bomber and put their feet up, which I certainly number myself among them, is that there's political shit to be shoveled. And it's mostly informational. It's mostly public relations. This is why, in a way, there's hope, because, you know, you may be the general of the Grand Army, you may have your finger on the thermonuclear button, but you can't get respect at the breakfast table. This is a universal phenomenon. I mean, it doesn't, you know, I'm sure Stalin had to hear terrible things at the breakfast table from his children, you know? And every other dominator is in this position. There's no peace, because, you know, you have to have women around to bury your children, and then half of these children are women, and there's just no escape from it. So ... You just lost a groupie. Well, I think this is the great principle which makes change possible, that information travels everywhere, and the best ideas will win. If we can level the ideological playing field, as the stakes are raised higher and higher, more and more desperate options will be considered, and eventually they will even come to such mad fringes as ourselves, and say, you know, well, everything else has failed, what do you people have in mind? Yeah? It seems to me that, the problems that are happening are happening more frequently, is that when the masses of people change their mind, is what's happening in Europe right now, the major changes just happen, you know, overnight, and that that's one of the things that can be happening, is that the mind itself changes sufficiently so as the quantum of change. A state of mind. A state of mind. A state of mind, yes. Yes, well, one of the most interesting things that I think is going on in the world with all this stuff in Eastern Europe and China and so forth and so on, that's not been commented upon very much, and you can see why when I comment on it, all of these changes are driven by huge crowds, massive crowds. Never in history have rulers had to face crowds of a million people standing in the center square of the city, screaming, resign, resign. Erich Honecker, when the notes came out of the East German Politburo meeting, he was all for turning the army loose on these people. And the Krens and the people around him said, Erich, you can't beat up 400,000 people, there's no way to do it. And you know, somebody said, you need 100,000 people to wag the tail of the Bolshevik dog, you need half a million people to kick the Bolshevik dog.
 dog out of the house. And there are more than Bolshevik dogs needing to be moved around. I think that this perestroika thing is totally unwelcome in the Western democracies because we're running a skin game. I mean, we could use free elections. Free elections are when you don't have federal subsidies for parties which have to have millions of members to qualify. We could use a renunciation of the leading role of the Repubblico-Democratisti party which has ruled this country for 200 years with an iron hand. I mean, all of this openness needs to come here. Our premises, we just live in an illusion. I mean, my hope for the Soviet Union is that it will become so free because, you know, there's nothing like a convert to really get obsessive about the pure stuff. They will get so free that they will shame this country. I mean, this country, you know, when you think about what's happening with reproductive freedom and the notion that we're considering turning half the population into second-class citizens who could be forced by law to face a life-threatening experience that they're not interested in. I mean, this kind of thinking is very bizarre. Thinking about the future and what the challenges will be and where people like ourselves are going to have to stand in all this, I think, based on the time wave and based on reading the newspaper, that the great stumbling block now in the formation of a sane global agenda is religious fundamentalism. And all three of the monotheistic religions are just guilty, guilty, guilty of this malarkey. I mean, Islamic fundamentalism is going to make enormous gains in the next little while. I see the resonance to the gains of Islam that we looked at last night coming in the fact that if you combine Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Azerbaijan into one country, it will be the world's largest Muslim country. It's almost twice the size of Iran. This is coming. As the Soviet Union twists apart, the Islam is going to be the major real estate windfall is going to go in their direction. Zionist fundamentalism in the Middle East is making it impossible to get a solution there in a situation where four million people are arrayed against 500 million people. From a historical perspective, it's a potential earthquake in the historical continuum. And Christian fundamentalism has completely distorted the social agenda in this country, not only on the issue of women's rights and that sort of thing, but I believe this whole drug thing is a reworking of the themes of the Garden of Eden story. And that they are, you know, just so appalled at the notion because the somewhere in that movement, there must be thinkers and they see this for exactly what it is. It's paganism. It's secular humanism. It's reconnecting to the earth by driving around the entire dominator metaphor. I mean, the peculiar thing about the God of the Old Testament is that of all religious ontologies on earth, this is the most male dominated. No mother, no sister, no lover, no female offspring. I mean, yes, minor traditions if you happen to be a scholar, but the basic thing is so male. And I think the attraction of monotheism is its philosophical parsimony. One God makes sense, has appeal, especially if you're into closure. But the problem is that we image in our personalities the kind of religion that we practice. And imaging ourselves as this omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent, all-knowing, centrally controlled entity has given a stamp of cultural approval to the ego that has left us in a very difficult position vis-a-vis the feminine, intuition, the earth, and any kind of ability to feel our situation. I mean, this kind of cultural collapse, if allowed to run to true Armageddon, is death by anesthesia. We cannot feel what is going on. I mean, the tube brings these horrendous images of, you know, pogrom, and oppression, and lies, and toxification, and wheedling, and weaselness, and we can't grip the emotional levers to become alarmed. And I don't know, maybe this is good. Maybe alarm and panic have no place, that we now have to get very steely-eyed and cold as we move into the real clinches of this thing. But it's in our lifetime. And there's very little talk about this. In capitalism, no planning extends beyond four or five years. In American democracy, no planning extends beyond four years. Everybody has their nose right up against it, and yet they're sailing along at a thousand miles an hour toward a brick wall that's just ahead. So, you know, planning, not necessarily centralized control, but planning, which is what shamanism has always been. I mean, the shaman told the people where the reindeer had moved. He told the people where the game was going to be. He told the people how they should move. He was a futurist, a forecaster, a planner. And this is what we need, this kind of intuition with integrity that isn't depending on statistical models, which are always wrong. I mean, you must have noticed, everybody here who reads Time Magazine or the New York Times or the London Times, you must have noticed this weird paradox, which is, you know more than most of the experts. You're better at predicting the price of gold, the movement of the stock market, the political situation in Argentina, than the experts. And have you noticed on NPR when they pull together three of these guys, so-and-so, Georgetown University, Sovietologist, and they're all saying, and you say, well, these guys, they're all right, they seem tolerable. Well, they've given their lives to understanding this stuff, and what do you care? And you're a fully empowered player when you sit down with them. In many cases, you know more than they do. It's because their intuition is totally dead. They can't make sense out of the situation because their way of analyzing it is flawed. Well, somehow the grassroots good sense, the common sense of ordinary people, needs to be reflected. And what that means is an abandonment of ideology. Ideology is something imposed from above, and it's a filter. Then only certain solutions are allowed through. And, you know, I don't have a political agenda. I praise chaos, because I think the main thing working to recreate a new world is the impossibility of controlling the old world. I love it when they say it's moving too fast. I love it because I know it means that they cannot get a hold on it. I mean, can you imagine trying to be the CIA and trying to control the situation in East Germany? I mean, you just throw up your hands and walk away, which is what we want you to do. And then, lo and behold, it flowers according to its own dynamics. Right now, the world is moving faster than the meddlers can meddle, and that's why it has this wonderfully fecund and optimistic aura to it. And, you know, I'm amazed at the naysayers and the people who say, well, the instability is increasing daily in Eastern Europe. Nonsense. It's not increasing daily. I mean, there have been some tight necks, but I think fundamental decisions have been made to let it unravel. Yeah. Well, you're right about the East. I mean, my God, the appetite for mysticism of these Russians is amazing. And, you know, Perestroikisti that I am, even I recoiled when he embraced the Pope. I thought, you know, K-Mart, it's okay, but the Pope...
 hope. My God, where does it end? Which, I suppose, shows that I'm politically constipated, you know? I mean, but ... well, I just saw a newspaper this morning, so I've cheated on you. He who has seen the most recent newspaper will win. Apparently, Shevardnadze has said it's a mess and they'll just chop off all arms shipments to everybody and everybody else should do the same, and that this is the problem, that all these governments are armed to the teeth and ... enough. So, I don't know. Shevardnadze, the foreign minister. Yeah. Well, see, this is another thing that's interesting about virtual reality. You know, it costs now in California basically $200,000 to live in the kind of home that when I was young you bought for $25,000. But in virtual reality, building costs drop to zero. What if we could wean people away from matter? I mean, what if the tackiest thing you could possibly be into would be a physical object? A physical object. And so people would live in white-walled apartments and no paintings would hang on these walls and no knick-knacks and $6,000 quartz crystals ripped out of Brazil and all of that stuff. And yet, everybody would be, could be as hedonic and as stuff-oriented as they wanted, but none of it would be real.

Terence McKenna ~ Anarchy Is The Ideal ~ December, 1989

You find out it's a long walk to the bathroom, and who needs that? So then you say, well, I could live anywhere, so why should I live at Versailles? It's a pain in the neck. This would be my hope for virtual reality. I think I've told you this fantasy before, and virtual reality brings it one step closer. Here's my vision of the future Eden. It looks like the earth looked 20,000 years ago. It's absolutely... There are no cities, there's no visible industry, there are no roads, no measurable pollution, no radiation. And when you zoom down on this world, you discover human beings, apparently living in some kind of primitive state, naked, nomadic, tribal, so forth and so on, but at equilibrium and seemingly amazingly healthy. So then you further zoom into this scene, and now you're behind the eyebrows of one of these naked, nomadic human beings, and you discover that there are menus when you close your eyes, and there's an interface when you close your eyes, and you can just pull down these menus and sit down on the beach and move off into worlds that are different from your own ecosystem, or that are highly technically advanced, that are much more technically advanced than our own world, but it's all virtual. It all exists in a completely non-invasive, non-destructive dimension. The entire thing is being run by a computer the size of a Maytag washer that is kept in the Potala in Huasa, and other than that black object, everything else on the earth appears completely primitive, but inside the minds of these people, there are myriad virtual worlds that they're moving in and participating in and living in. This is doable. The question is how to avoid cultural crack-up. I mean, if we had ten million dollars, we could deliver this for a hundred spoiled rich people. The trick is, how are we going to deliver it to five million people and navigate ourselves through the various energy locks, resource locks, and political mind locks that we have to get through to get to that place? But that's my idea of living in the imagination, a realized physical body in a perfected and preserved natural environment, but a massive interface with the world of human culture that has been turned into light and electrons and data streams, and nowhere comes to rest to distort matter or to force its imprint onto matter. Does that seem... That seems several steps ahead. Several steps ahead. I think there's... I'm talking about the in-between now. You mean getting from here to... Oh, how to do it? Well, somebody said to me recently, if you had an unlimited amount of money, how would you use it to save the world? And, you know, a fighter plane, a trainer fighter, costs a hundred million dollars, and they order these things in lots of five hundred at a time. If somebody were to give a hundred million dollars to some kind of foundation that was called the Save the World Foundation, a hundred million dollars will, invested, will generate ten million, eight to ten million dollars a year. This is a lot of money when spent in the information domain. It's nothing when you spend it on military hardware, but if you spend it on TV spots, it gets you somewhere. I think there hasn't been a massive investment in solutions. We think, you know, our... and I'm speaking for all of us, maybe I'm wrong, but we don't correctly perceive the scale of the various forces working in society. I mean, you have the military-industrial complex, and you have the New Age. Well, are these approximately equal, or are we comparing an aphid to an elephant here? Well, it's very hard to say, because they operate in different domains. In the realm of ideas, we seem fairly powerful. They seem fairly exhausted. They control the legal machinery. They don't even control the media. The media is a really perverse creature. It's driven by an utterly amoral curiosity. And if you're weird enough, they'll come to you and put you in front of millions of people, no matter whether you blew up a school bus or what. Only if you've got somebody that's got the flux, they can buy the space for you, you see. That's not true, because it's part of the public relations people. They can get you on anything, if they know what they're doing. This is a public relations person. Well, see, I think that the New Age has its patrons, but the amounts of money that move around are trivial in terms of getting anything done. If a foundation had five to ten million dollars a year to spend, and it spent it in a truly visionary way, I mean, the institution itself has to be correct. It's just not a free ride for, you know, the people doing it. But there are projects that could be pushed forward. This virtual reality thing, when I went down to see those guys, I assumed that it would be a shiny glass box and hurrying executives and this and that. I mean, it is, after all, a major software company. Well, my God, it's just a science fair project run amok. And everybody has hair down to their ass, and there are cigarette butts stabbed out in Styrofoam cups, and waste paper everywhere. And the whole setup was put together and run for under $300,000, you know? So for pennies, they create electronic slingshots with which to fell the global dominator, Goliath. And I said, I thought I'd have to stand in line down here. Where's Disney? Where's everybody? Aren't you guys going to glory? And they said, oh, no, it's kind of, you know, people don't take us seriously, and they say we need to prove this and that and the other thing. I don't know. Yeah? I just kind of feel like all these enormous humanitarian projects that require a lot of money seem like they would somehow have to come after people started talking to each other, stopping being afraid of life, afraid of their feelings, afraid of their fellows. I remember hearing you once say something like, was it ordinary people talking to ordinary people? From my experience, I really remember that, because from my experience, that's really difficult. And I think that's why my, you know, the psychedelic experience was difficult for me, because there's a lot of emotions. It was, I think, ordinary me communicating with ordinary me. I found it really scary and difficult. I wonder why we're sort of afraid of each other, at least speaking for myself, why that's so scary and afraid of the feelings, and how that could be changed. But that's where the tension is, is between the individual and the group. Well, you know, this is the ego thing and the need to dissolve, but the need to be safe. And it's very hard to learn surrender. I mean, often after these groups, people come up to me sometimes and say, you know, I thought I was crazy until I heard you speak. And, you know, that means that the meme, the bridge is the strength, because this is an entirely legitimate idea. I don't care how peculiar it is. I know where I'm coming from, and I'm not easily led down the primrose path. I'm puzzled that I have such a weird life, you know. I mean, I thought I would end up teaching French poetry in a decent girls' school somewhere. That was, at one point, my goal. But what happened to me is what makes me say what I have to say. I have no proclivity for this stuff at all. I'm a tougher nut to crack than most people. If it works for me, it will work for anybody, you know. It's a very generalized kind of thing. There's all these moving fronts of change have to move simultaneously. I mean, there's work on our relations to other people. There's work on our relation to the psychedelic experience. Then there's our acting as a meme transmitter and political force to the larger world outside. And to, you know, always...
 carried on in the light of how ordinary we are. I mean, this is not an elitist thing at all. It belongs to, if you can see lightning and hear thunder, you can have the psychedelic experience. Of course, what you make of it is your own business, but it's in the bones. It's more basic than the philosophies that have claimed human attention through history. And I'm hopeful. In fact, in a way, there is a level in me where this is all a charade, because I figure it's settled. It's settled. And I don't know why we have to go through this period where we worry about it and struggle and tear our hair, because I really, at a very profound level, think we are now so close to this huge attractor into novelty. There's no way out of here. I mean, it's coming. We dropped in the 16th century. Now it's beginning to come on, and there's no getting away from it. You can rave and rant all you want, but you know. So we just then have to sort of reassure each other and hang together. This boat will make it. And my god, what's coming is as to nothing what has been. I mean, what's coming is turmoil and turbulence that will tax the faith of a saint in reasonable conclusions, because the whole world is going to undergo deconstruction. I mean, Gorbachev has it right, but he's so far the only guy saying, we did it wrong, 100% wrong. I mean, I apologize, but having said that, what do you want me to do? We did it wrong, and now we're going to pull it apart. And it's the task of someone playing pick-up sticks, you know, that game where the idea is to take the pile of sticks apart without this pile of sticks cascading and shifting. This is what has to be done. I mean, we've got nuclear arsenals. We've got bacteriological warfare. You've got racism, sexism, moneyism, all the stuff stacked up to the ceiling. And we just have to take hold. I think it's happening. I think that this democracy stuff is not the conversion of Marxism to another 18th century political system, but that democracy is the biological way to organize society, that people power is not a political appeal. It's a biological appeal. I mean, of course, it's what ants have. They do it the way the genes want it done. They don't have an intellectual construct, which then either a leading party or a military clique or a royal family or a bunch of gangsters get together and tell everybody how it's going to be. I think democracy is really in the name for pragmatism, for do what works, free the people, channel the creativity of every individual into the social life of society, not leaders and followers, not elites and masses, but a channeling of creativity into the places where it needs to go. And I think that this is now unstoppable. The glitch is China, but I'm very optimistic there. I think, you know, watch the anniversary. Watch May and June. I don't think they can go through the anniversary. I mean, the Chinese have learned from what's happened in Western Europe. And in fact, really, what happened in Tiananmen Square freed Eastern Europe, because had they not had that horrendous example to guide them, you can bet they would have stumbled into some kind of effort to suppress it. So, you know, democracy is this innate belief in people. It's a psychedelic way of doing it. It's the closest we can get to anarchy. Anarchy, to my mind, is, of course, the ideal. But anarchy has to be mediated with polity. And the way you do that is through democracy. What about, can you imagine a symposium of some kind, possibly even around Essling, with some thinkers of, like, your Save the World. I've been thinking about a foundation and actually thinking about getting, trying to pursue getting a grant and getting with people for a Save the Human foundation, which is similar to the Save the World. I mean, so much energy and money is put into saving various things around us. And it would at least start a dialogue about these solutions. I mean, I don't see that it would be very difficult to get the money from foundations. No, this kind of thing is worth doing. I mean, you know, when we founded our botanical dimensions, our little plant survival thing, we assumed, because you hear so much about it, that the rainforest conservation field would be crowded with megabuck institutions. And even though it is so hot, and even though it's in all the newspapers, you'd be amazed what a small party it is. It's about 50 people worldwide who really care, who run these organizations. And they know how to get good PR. But you know, 50 people out of 5 billion are giving full time their effort to try and save the rainforest. There's a tremendous disparity between where resources are put and where they need to be put. Hopefully, you know, awareness spread by whatever means would be followed on by a redesigning of the flow charts of where energy and attention goes. Opening up the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe is going to reveal unbelievable toxic wastelands created by their military industrial complex. And you know, the earth is in far worse shape than we think. That's why this forward escape notion, this notion of intensifying change by changing behavior through psychedelics is, as far as I can see, the only way out. See, I really think that if you're trying to change someone's psychology, you have to change their behavior. It's more important than any other thing about them. I mean, I'm sure maybe some of you are analysts, and this is known to be just malarkey. But if I were a therapist and someone came to me and said, I'm a severely depressed, I'm a manic depressive person, I would not attempt to unravel their relationship to their father or their mother. Or I would say, how do you spend your day? How do you spend your life? And when they told me that they had a humdrum job and that they always go home at 6 o'clock and they watch a little TV and drink a beer and go to bed, I'd say, OK, here is your prescription. As your therapist, I tell you, you must go on Friday nights for at least two hours to the following singles bar. And you don't have to do anything. You don't have to talk to anybody. You don't have to order a drink. But you must sit there. And this change in behavior is an opening for all kinds of things to happen. I mean, they will meet someone, not necessarily a lover, but maybe a business opportunity. Or someone in that bar will tell them that they have a place in Antigua. If they ever want to go there, they can use it. And then they will. And that will. So the important thing, you see, is to bust them out of their behavioral pattern. And the great thing about psychedelics is that they will do this. That we can self-treat ourselves to break down habitual patterns of behavior. Habit is the thing which is running us over the edge. I mean, there's all the yipping and yapping about drug habits. And I agree. I mean, I'm not into hard drugs at all. I find them detractors, lead you off the track. But habituation to substances is only one part of the picture. I mean, we habituate to furniture styles, to colors, to people, to flavors, to television shows, to automobile brands. We are like the addictive creature. And this involvement.
 of psyche, in things external to the body, makes it very difficult for us to discipline ourselves. The most dangerous habits in the world today are not drug habits, they're ideological habits, ways of, unexamined ways of thinking about reality, you know, racism is an unexamined way of thinking about reality, sexism, all forms of fascism, unexamined ways of thinking about reality, busting up habitual behavior patterns is what will do it. That's why these historical changes, you know, the most constipated person in East Germany has had their patterns busted up in the last six months, whether they wanted it or not. Everybody is more flexible. I found this in Europe, that everybody is more flexible and more tolerant than people in America. And the reason is, twice in this century, Europe has been leveled by world war. If you don't think that gives you a kind of a cool and an openness and a little more tolerance, that we don't have. We're rigid. We're bomb them into the Stone Age people. That's how we deal with our problems. So I think, you know, in ourselves, in society, this habit thing has to be very much in our awareness. The guy who founded general systems theory, Ludwig van Bertalanffy, had a wonderful statement. He said, people are not machines, but in every circumstance where they are given the opportunity to behave like machines, they will do it. They will do it. It's something about how the engine of life seeks to economize energy by using familiar patterns. And if you don't keep turning this and perturbing it and putting new factors into the mix, well then you run down and consciousness contracts and you become, you know, much more a statistic than a living, breathing human being. Well that's the ongoing, the continuing carrot of my career. People always ask me, what will you do if nothing happens? And the answer is, my sixty-fifth birthday will have occurred a month in front of this. I'll simply retire, shuffle off the stage and turn it over to young blood. Well, it's very hard to imagine what will happen. Perhaps the name of this religion is, let's try to imagine what will happen. And then there are many scenarios. A kind of nice scenario that I like is that everyone will behave appropriately. That there will just be this moment, it will sweep around the world where people staring at themselves in the mirror, shaving in the morning and so forth and so on, will just say, you know, all resistance has fallen from the circuits. I now am able to behave appropriately. We don't know what that means. The vision I have is of people leaving their factories and homes with tears of joy streaming down their faces and staring into the sky as a great radiance settles over them and they are lost to the view of those of us who are not privy to the transformation. It's very much, I mean, just to show you how weird life is, it's very much like the Christian notion of the glory, you know. It's just this, and it sweeps over the world and it takes everybody. I was very much affected as a child by a terrible B-movie which I've not seen or heard of in 25 years. It was called The 27th Day and there was this wonderful scene in this movie where it showed people wearing those flat pointed hats and planting rice somewhere in Asia and then it showed them stopping and looking at the sky with tears streaming down their faces. And then you saw a bunch of black Africans herding cattle and then this guy putting a spear in the ground and looking up and his eyes filling with tears. And then about six of these shots around the world and this probably is what launched me on my career, actually, is the wish to see this happen. How many people ever saw that movie? Amazing. I saw it actually this last year when it was being done again. Oh really? Well, if you ever tape it, send it to me. It's a crazy movie. I won't tell the plot. The plot is not at all like that moment. That moment is the high point. But just this idea that there is resistance and if this resistance would fall away, there is an inner nature in us that is seeking to unfold itself. And I don't know whether it's done through technology or drugs or God's love or what it is, but it's a coaxing into being of a higher state of understanding. Life in the imagination, I think, going off into the domain of our hopes and dreams. We are such a peculiar animal and so delicately poised between the bestial and the angelic. I used to have an old professor who said, if you look at this world and you think of us as descended from the angels, then it's a mess. But if you see us as a near relative of the chimpanzee, then what a peculiar accomplishment, you know? And this is where we hover in this intermediate zone. Yes. You had this image when you were talking about the looking up, about a massive global MDMA experience. Well, MDMA leading into DMT, leading into the lesser lights, yeah, it's interesting. I mean, why is Western ontology haunted by this notion of the end of the world? You know, the Muslims are into it, the Christians are into it, everybody's into this, to appointing a moment when God comes tangential to history. This is really the thing that is unique, besides the monotheistic thing. The really odd thing about Western religion is the persistent idea that God will come tangential to history, that there will come a moment where the two things cross paths. And you know, for Christianity, Christ is that moment, and theologians like Karl Barth have described Christ as the axis time. They say, you know, the time leading into the resurrection was one thing, the time after the resurrection was something else. And Christian historiography is based around the axis point of the resurrection. And yet, you know, from the point of view of a Roman empiricist skeptic standing there, this just looks like a small potatoes religious uprising where you drag this guy off and execute him and get things under control again. In Christian hermeneutics, the end of the world becomes like a secondary axis time. And then the time between the resurrection and the end of the world is, you know, before the resurrection, the gates of paradise were closed, according to Christian hermeneutics. And all the souls, they were unable to get in to heaven, they were held in a holding area for several thousand years from the sin of Adam to the resurrection of Christ. Then Christ's entry into heaven, all those souls accompanied him, and the pipeline was open. And it is open until the last judgment. But the Christian apocalypse is a vision of a world destroyed, not transformed. And my interpretation of that is, this is the nightmare of the dominator culture coming true. I mean, the world, that world is going to be destroyed. And this, you know, this, I can't, this idiotic riff.
 about how, because he has a strawberry spot, Gorbachev fulfills the prediction of Revelation and is the Beast 666. This is the kind of stuff that just drives me straight up the wall. I mean, everybody has been hailed as the Beast of Revelations. I think Frederick Barbarossa got it first. Otto the Great of Germany, he was the first one. Then Frederick Barbarossa. Muammar Gaddafi briefly held the title. And it just sort of moves around. I have put, you know, this is all... Malarkey as far as I'm concerned. I think that Christianity's myth is of its own overwhelmment, you know. And even in Revelation, the Mater Magister comes and destroys the serpent at the end of the world. Definitely ideological struggles, choices are going to have to be made. It's not going to be possible to be a mugwump through the next 40 years. You know, a mugwump is somebody who sits on the fence with their mug on one side and their wump on the other. And they don't make a decision. They try to, you know, be a liberal and somehow finesse it through and make everybody happy. I don't know if that's going to be possible. Yeah. Talking about these tangential experiences with God as signifying this acceleration or ending event, it seems like that the UFO experience would be like that. Since we're polling, I want to see if there are a number of people. Most people here said they had seen or experienced the elves. A couple, several have experienced the end of time. Has anybody here ever had an encounter without being stoned? With a UFO? I didn't consider myself stoned. Well, I haven't slept for 10 days. That's why there's a qualifier. Well, I think that the UFO is the Ur myth of the concrescence. That's what I call this thing that happens in 2012, the concrescence. It's the compression of all complexity into a single spinning object that when you look into this spinning object, even though it's the size of a hardball, there are stars inside of it. And you realize that it's a holographic matrix. It isn't the matter of this world. It's made out of holographic translinguistic matter. It's somehow a doorway into the imagination. We used to imagine this stuff, which could do anything, which was the precursor to the flying saucer. And you could eat this stuff, and it was food. You could stretch it out like silly putty and stand under it, and you could take a shower under it. Or you could stretch it out bigger and sit on it, and it would fly you around places. It also would become a telephone, an automobile, whatever. It's just a localized part of space under the complete control of your own imagination. I don't know what to think about whether there are friendly entities on the way. It sort of depends on how stoned I am. I mean, there's one way of looking at the local universe where you just can't believe that this stuff goes unmonitored. That probably as we unravel the early history of the Earth, it's beginning to look like the forces which created this situation are pretty statistically improbable. I mean, you not only have to have a planet around the right kind of star, but you need to have a moon around that planet of a mass, very unusually large mass for the satellite, and so forth and so on. So it may be that life is pretty rare. Well, the rarer it is, you may bet the more intensely it will make the effort to monitor and locate other examples of itself. So it may be that the great attractor that drew humanness out of animal organization is the product of some kind of interaction with an intelligence, but it may not deal on the level of individuals. I find it hard to believe that they will come down in little ships and tromp out and read us our Miranda rights. I doubt that it works like that, but there may be extraterrestrial tugs on the development. Seeing something totally unexplainable will provide a tug on the lot. Well, one of the interesting things about UFOs from the new way of analyzing them, the old style was to say, what are they and where did they come from? Since that got us nowhere for 30 years, the new style of UFO analysis is to say, what are they doing to human populations? Suddenly then, you can use polling and statistics and interview techniques and all kinds of stuff to, if they have a purpose, then we should be able to figure out the purpose, not by asking them the purpose, but by analyzing the implementation of the changes they've set in motion. Well, the only thing everybody can agree about what the flying saucers have accomplished is they've shaken people's faith in science. Isn't that interesting? They're like a compensatory image from the unconscious that's saying to the dominator ego, your model doesn't work. There are parts of reality that are completely outside the domain of your description. And I think flying saucers are pretty upsetting to scientists. That seems to be where their major impact is, is on very straight people and then of course in the trailer courts. But I don't know, if there is an extraterrestrial influence, I don't know if it will ever tip its hat or not. To me, really the strangest thing about all this, and that I can't generate enough excitement about, are the beings. The beings are confounding. I mean, you can imagine a psychedelic experience entirely without beings. There's wonderful insights, beautiful colors, architectural vistas, visions. But the beings just tip the scales to where you say, hey, what's going on? The world isn't supposed to be organized like this. I mean, psychological insights I can handle, but elves bearing gifts, what's that about? And I suppose this position of straight people is that it doesn't happen. And why do so many people experience that same finale? Well, they're insane. They've been deluded by Terence McKenna, who has launched a kind of hysteria where then people think they see elves. You're hypnotized. Yes. So then this is the magic wand that is waved over any unpleasant evidence. I mean, look for example at dowsing. I mean, I don't give a hoot about dowsing. But people do it year after year, make money at it, get paid, demonstrate their ability. And science says, you know, it's nonsense. It's garbage. Nothing is happening. Well, and it just goes on and on. It's just been ruled out of bounds. Certain things are so troubling, and they seem so trivial. Because they're saying, well, look here, we've got science. It's telling us about distant galaxies, the heart of the atom, DNA. It's really working. And you want the evidence of the psychedelic experience to overthrow this explanatory tool? No way. It's too operationally useful. Well, that's a bit of candid rhetoric there. Yes, it is operationally useful. But this means we've moved entirely away from the notion of the facts of the matter. Now it means we just use what's operationally useful. And you'll remember I told you at the beginning of this thing that we need to find out what is true so that we can do what is right. You know? And then as an example of that, you know, in talking about all this apocalyptic speculation and so forth, what would it be like, or what lessons could we draw, if we were to get all high...
 wiped up, create a green world, save the rainforest, and on December 22, 2012, the sun explodes. You know, this would be a rather wry comment on the nature of the political and consciousness raising enterprise. In other words, you've got to know what you're dealing with for your plan to make any sense. You get no points for saving the rainforest if the sun explodes, it means it was a stupid waste of time. And what you should have been doing was preparing, going all out in the technological direction, trying to create an arc to get out of here and back. Save everybody foundation, all life on earth would be pulling for you. In fact, as long as we're on this topic, you know, there is a problem with stellar dynamics. There is a problem with getting nuclear theory to agree with measurements coming off the sun. The sun is not producing enough neutrinos. It should be producing a third more. This is a pretty serious problem for nuclear chemistry. Nuclear chemistry has been in place 50 years. It's not accustomed to having its predictions off by 35%. And yet, they're building these huge things in North Dakota, miles under the ground that they fill with cleaning fluid and observe for release of Cherenknikov radiation, and they're not seeing enough. Well, the only explanation for this is that the nuclear furnace of the sun has gone off the boil, that something has happened in the core of the sun, and it will take, they estimate, about 35,000 years from this event's beginning for physical processes to reflect it on the surface of the sun. In other words, it takes 35,000 years for it to percolate to the surface of the sun. But if it went off the nuclear boil, the neutrino output would have dropped instantly. And that doesn't take 35,000 years to reach the surface. It happens instantly because neutrinos move at the speed of light. So it may be that these glaciations and this cooling and all this stuff that's been going on over the past million years, that the sun is in a kind of sputtering phase where it's losing and regaining the ability to carry out fusion in its core. Well, if this is true, then it all makes sense, horribly enough. It means that biology senses the impending total eco-crisis and is frantically attempting to accelerate evolution to produce a way out, a technological species that could create the kind of machinery that could lift a significant portion of the biota out of the path of the disaster. We need to understand if this is what we're supposed to be doing. Another possibility is, you know, when you analyze the history of the Earth, there is repeated evidence of major asteroidal impact. This thing 65 million years ago, nothing larger than a chicken walked away from. You know, last January, there was what they call an Earth-crosser. It crossed within a half a million miles of Earth, a Dumbo-shaped object five kilometers across. The recalculation for the return of this object, it's imprecise because they didn't get a perfect fix on it, but the return Earth-cross is predicted for late in 2012. What? What does this object mean? It's an asteroid. It's an Earth-crossing asteroid. There are a number of these Earth-crossing asteroids, and there are a number of punctuations in the fossil record that seem to indicate that these things come down with reasonable regularity. So I think, you know, we need to open ourselves to the record of nature, the silent witness of nature, the stratigraphy and the levels of radiation in the Earth, and we also need to think in global and planetary terms. I mean, let's be frank about what this is about. We are a species. We are knitted to other species. We want to live. The previous style of social dynamics has been no organizational plan at all, no global sense of anything. The social program of the last 500 years has been plunder. It's plunder, and then that's what we've been doing. But now, you know, we've plundered enough, and you raise yourself out of the gutter of plunder and say, you know, we've got to pull back. Or go somewhere else and plunder. Or go somewhere else and plunder, but the problem is we've gotten so into the plunder style that we've lost the fine touch. It's not clear that we can get it together enough to get off of here. It's going to be a major test of human cooperation to survive the meltdown of global civilization. One of the things that completely freaks me out about, the only thing really that completely freaks me out about what's going on in the Soviet Union is, you know, I applaud perestroika. I want to get rid of the Communist Party. I think the military needs to be kicked around and so forth and so on. But don't fumble away your ability to deliver large payloads into near-Earth orbit. If they blow it and fumble away that ability, then there ain't no way off this rock. Because the American space program is smoke and mirrors. You can forget it. Only the Russians have boosters large enough. And if you let one of these design team, engineering, assembly line configurations fall to pieces, it would take 15 to 20 years. You know, they can't even find the blueprints for the Saturn V rocket. Somebody misplaced them. They don't know. They found part of it. They're looking. So, you know, people think psychedelic consciousness is a permission to escapism. I don't think so. I think it's an invitation to a high degree of awareness. The real options, the real nature of the predicament, not as it's culturally defined, but as it is defined by reality. You become aware of all this. You feel into the facts. I mean, you are connected to the rhythm of flux. And this leaves no room for unconsciousness. Unconsciousness is what is destroying us as a species. It's a luxury of hunter-gatherers. It's absolutely fatal to thermonuclear high techies like ourselves. I mean, we can't have enrageable apes locked up inside our brains. Not when we have our fingers on thermonuclear arsenals and that sort of thing. We have to chill out, get serious about the human enterprise. We have come this far through unimaginable hell. I mean, the people, the nobility of our ancestors, what they went through without antibiotics, without penicillin, without wall-to-wall beige carpeting. It has been a long pull over the last 150,000 million years. Five times the ice has ground south from the poles a mile deep or more, splitting and islanding human populations and bringing tremendous hardship. Our people have had it very, very tough. I mean, we are not strong in tooth and claw. All of our adaptations were to preserve tiny populations. I mean, the estimation is that at the height of the Neanderthal period, there were less than 40,000 individuals in Europe. I mean, tiny, tiny human populations. And against all odds, and being smart, smart, smart, these people brought us to this point. And now, you know, it's our turn. And we have it within our power to do something. They had it within their power only to hand on the flame of hope, of aspiration, of shamanism.
 imaginings. But it's given to us, if we play it right, to actually take those hopes and turn it into a conflagration of transformation that will burn away the dross of history and recover and reunite the various parts of the human legacy in a way that will give permission for a sane and caring world. The prodigal journey into history was for a purpose. The purpose was a technological prowess, the perfection of the tool creating impulse. And at the end of history comes the ultimate tool, the flying saucer, the omniprogrammable Macintosh, the machine which does anything. And that perfected tool is lethal then in the theater of its creation. It has to be carried back into archaic nature. And we have to begin to deconstruct, dematerialize, retreat, begin a feminizing of our attitude toward ourselves and nature. Care, encouragement, reflection, rather than dominance, utilization, destruction. If we don't do this, I think that our situation is fairly precarious. And the whole point of talking about psychedelics in this context is they make this something other than an inspiring after dinner speech. Because you've heard this speech before. This is what all good guys say, but there's no hope for it without psychedelics because they impel you to change behavior, to think new thoughts, to see deeper into reality, to aspire higher, and to feel more. And if we can't awaken ourselves to those things, then it's simply not going to happen. And all the means, the tools, the gnosis, the shamans, they still exist at the periphery of this doomed civilization. They still exist to help us toward a new understanding. But we have to clarify this for ourselves in our own minds. We need to try these ideas out on other people, even the most skeptical of people. This idea can stand on its own two feet. It can compete in the marathon of ideas. It's as respectable as any of these other answers. It cannot be sneered into non-existence, which is currently the establishment approach to it. It's just we're deluded. Our brains are damaged. We've taken so many drugs. We don't understand the real nature of power and politics and society. Well, this is all coming from people who claim they do, and look at the mess they've made of it. So I don't think there's any reason to hang our heads. This is religion as it was practiced the first million years. This is social responsibility as it was practiced the first million years. And for us to take it up is nothing more than for us to return to the last moment in our own story when everything made sense. And I maintain that last moment was in that partnership paradise in Saharan Africa. Now we have to go forward into the past. This is the way to create a unified meaning to what has happened to us. Because if this just ends in a toxified and ruined planet, then what a comment on the values that we hold most dear. Our belief that life is for something. Our belief that integrity matters. Our belief that our transmission from generation to generation was something that was important. The meaning of it all is in the hands of the living. Those people, a hundred thousand years in the grave, their meaning is in our hands. Because the question is, what shall we do with what they have given us? Well, that's it. That's the question that I want to leave you with. This was an extraordinary group and thank you very much. It was good for me.

Terence McKenna ~ Apes Shouting At The Monolith ~ May 1990

Well, I'll just say a little bit about myself and how I relate to this. I don't really like to talk about it in those terms, but since this is the getting to know each other thing, it's very important to what I understand that everybody else understand that there's nothing special about it or me. In other words, for what I'm trying to do to make sense, this access to this transcendental realm has to be democratically available. It can't depend on your spiritual accomplishment or your mastery of a technique or something like that. It isn't like that. It's something that is as much a part of us as ordinary people as our sexuality is. And sexuality is not something that is dispensed by gurus. It's just something you figure out and do. And this is much more along those lines. How I explain to myself what I'm doing in this position is that I was just simply incredibly lucky, incredibly fortunate to be at certain places at certain times when they were handing out the good stuff. And then I see you in the same way. Someone over here, Fred, said he was looking for the answer to the mystery of life. Well, the weird thing about taking that position is that you can fall into positions where you find it, where you find the answer. And I sort of feel like that's the situation that the deep plant psychedelic community is in. It's a sense of having found the answer, and now the task changes. It's a completely different kind of spiritual universe that you live in after you've found the answer. Because the task becomes facing the answer. Facing it. You now have it. It's no more about disciplining the passions and all this. No, no. It's now been handed over. And so what are you going to do with it? And this is, to my mind, in a way, the problem and the challenge that we face globally as a species. You know, if the holy grail of the Western mind was the ability to release energy and form matter and to control nature, then this is now achieved. The goal. So now the whole context of the problem changes. And the problem becomes changing our own minds. Controlling the hand that controls the energy. And this is an entirely different kind of problem. It is not to be solved with the analytical knife plunged again and again into the body of nature. That whole approach is seen to be, at best, passe, at worst, bankrupt. So instead, it's about trying to edge up close to nature and feeling, as individuals and as a society, very peculiar about this. You know, it's like going back to your rape victim and pleading for their forgiveness. And yet, as I've tried to make sense of these psychedelic experiences, first in a general way, saying, you know, what are these molecules for? Or is that a proper question to ask? What are they doing for the plant? What are they doing for me? As I've tried to come to terms with what this might all be about, I've come more and more back to the notion that it all lies in the plants. That our peculiar restlessness, which, in modern circumstances, has evolved into a rapacious appetite for addictive substances of all sorts. Our peculiar inappropriateness in all contexts. So we are not quite simply complex mammals. We are certainly not angels. And we just seem to occupy a very uncomfortable place in the hierarchy of creation. I think this has to do with the fact that we are the traumatized inheritors of a dysfunctional relationship, a relationship that grew dysfunctional in the last 15,000 to 25,000 years. And what we call history is the fall out of a dynamic, here-and-now, feeling-toned relationship with our environment and into, you know, this anticipation of the future, worry about the past, basically ego. And I recently spoke in New York, and New York is a very nuts-and-bolts kind of town. And people there took issue with the notion that all of our problems can be boiled down to a single problem. If you trace the thread of every screw-up back into the maze, it all comes back to a single issue, which is excess of ego. We all have excess of ego. And our entire situation, legalistic, psychological, religious, everything is about this. That it doesn't work, it's maladaptive, and yet we have it. And why do we have it if it's maladaptive? If it doesn't promote human values, then how in the hell did it get started, and what is it that's maintaining and sustaining it? Well, this is what I want to talk about over the course of the weekend. When I pushed the analysis of what the psychedelic experience meant to the limits, I was surprised to discover that it left the domain of my personal relationship to the mystery. What is it? What does it want from me? What is it trying to say? All that had to also make room for another issue, which is there's a political issue here. I think most people in this room, most people who have had the psychedelic experience, will agree that the most profound, the most open-hearted, the most moving moments of their lives, some of them have been tied in with those experiences. But we seem unable or unwilling or afraid to extrapolate that conclusion to the notion that this is a general panacea for society. Because we cannot conceive that the solution to a spiritual dilemma could lie in matter. In other words, we ourselves have been infected by the inside-outside matter-spirit dichotomies of the dominator culture. But the notion that man, notice the gender thrust here, the notion that man could somehow bootstrap himself to Godhead without reference to nature seems to me highly peculiar and simply nothing more than an expression of hubris, pride. A belief, you know, that we can do it our way and alone. So, all of this is very... the shelf life is short on all of these issues because the planet is in a state of terminal crisis. Does that have anything to do with the psychedelic experience? Or are these separate issues? How can they be separate issues if the psychedelic experience...
 is a mirror of the state of the individual and collective psyche, and if the planet is on a collision course with some kind of terminal crisis. It seems to me, then, that what, you know, nature is struggling to right this disequilibrated planetary ecosystem. So, in a sense, there is nothing to be done except to watch and wait. But on the other hand, we are not apart from nature. We are, in some sense, a portion of nature which is the most reactive and energetic, because we are reactive and energetic in the domain of epigenetic codes. We can foment rapid change. Until recently, it was a truism of thinking about society that all change had to be gradual. This myth has now been exploded. We know that, you know, you just take them all out and hang them, and then that's not gradual, and then you've got a new world. And this has been done in several places with excellent success recently. So change need not be gradual. And, in fact, I think we're entering into a historical domain where very little change will be gradual. Gradual change was a luxury of the past. Well, how to come to terms with these processes, patterns, forming and reforming in our lives, in our relationships, in our families, in our businesses, in the extended relationships we have with people. What is needed, you see, is a kind of collective breakthrough at perception. I was thinking in the hot tub today, the most politically potent thing you can do for somebody is to educate them, to give them the facts. The facts are now so horrifying, and the means of delivering the facts so effective that there is no excuse for everyone not beginning to act in an informed manner. And I think this is happening. For instance, a few months ago I was in Belize, which is an extremely poor country, a little chip of land in the armpit of the Yucatan that used to be British Honduras. I didn't know there were countries this funky in the Western Hemisphere. I thought you had to go, you know. They have the fortune, good or ill, of speaking English as a national language. So when the British left, they just simply pointed dishes to the sky and they get 270 channels of American television. It has completely educated the entire population of the country into an extremely sophisticated strategy for surviving in the real world of the present moment. They understand that their only resource is their nature, so they have made the entire country into a nature reserve. They understand that tourism is their only hope and that for tourism to work, they must halt the destruction of their environment. This informing people at distant points of the value systems operating at the centers where values are being created allows people to position themselves for success. I mean, a lot is being lost. You cannot pretend that the situation we're in is unambiguously rosy. It isn't. It's extremely complicated. Marxism dissolves. What does this mean? It means that now 21 language groups and 16 tribal groups are open to exploitation, homogenization, leveling of cultural values. Everybody will be turned into a kind of white bread-consuming citizen in a beige fascist world. And this is the alternative to Armageddon. We hail this as a great step forward. What is happening is that all restrictions are being done away with against the expression of completely rapacious drives for immediate self-gratification. Until 18 months ago, only half the world had permission to behave like assholes. Now this permission is being extended to everyone as quickly as possible as a right, you know, your right to join in the looting of the planet. Well, certainly Stalinism is a bad thing, but is the only ideological counterpoise to that to be high-tech, mindless, consumer fascism? I don't think so. In fact, I know not, because there isn't enough metal in the planet to put a Volvo in every driveway of 3.5 billion or 4 billion people. So the search for a serious revolution in values is on. It cannot... it must come from the spiritual realm, and the spiritual realm in practical terms means the imagination. The frontier of our species is the imagination. Now we have to take that slogan and somehow turn it into a technology. How can we go to the place where ideas come from? How can we somehow separate our architectonic fantasies from the ongoing momentum of the planet? Both are valid, you see, but we have to recognize that what we are is almost an ontological transformation of life. We are to life what life is to the inorganic realm, and we need to separate ourselves from the planet. The planet, the entire planet, should be a bio-reserve. How many of these oxygen-rich, water-heavy worlds are there? Now, of course, it's pie-in-the-sky to talk about moving all heavy industry into space or to the asteroid belt or something like that, but on the other hand, when you extrapolate a visionless future, even as much as three or four decades into the future, you see the accumulation of problems on such a scale that then there will be no pulling out of the power dive, because once a society passes a certain point in the process of dissolution, you just don't make a decision to change. I mean, it's too late. You don't have the engineering skills. You don't have the technical community. You don't have the resource extraction ability. It's all slipped through your fingers. Well, I think psychedelics are catalysts to thought, to imagination, to understanding, and we are like somebody who has been dead drunk while the house was burning down around us, and now we have awakened to the sound of falling timbers and the smell of smoke, and we have a certain limited amount of time to figure this situation out. We don't have 500 years or 100 years. Anybody who speaks in terms of solutions that require 100 years or even 50 years to implement doesn't understand the dynamics of the situation. History has some kind of will for its own transcendence, and I think we are now so close to the dropping of the mask and the realization of what the game was all along that the sense of this nearby revelation informs all of our lives, I mean, drives our dreams, our thoughts, the choices we make, why we're here in this room this evening. It's very big news, I think. The world is not at all as we suppose it to be. I find that very amazing. I mean, that's the bottom line for me. I always think of these things in reference to that scene in 2001 when the anthropoid apes are leaping up and down and screaming and pointing at the monolith. That's what we're doing here in this room. I mean, the subject of this weekend is unspeakable. It can only be obliquely indicated. Whatever you say about it is not true, and yet it is somehow the informing mystery of being, and it is not remote. That's the big news.
 That the previous human model, which is that we are all poor, groveling sinners, and that gnosis will trickle down to us from the wonderful folks up on top of the steep building nearby where they're conducting mysterious business with liver readings and stargazing, that model is insufficient and insulting considering the situation we have been brought to by those very stargazing, man-wearing dresses. So I think what we have to do now is just take the machinery into our own hands. It's a matter of personal responsibility to find out what the world is really doing, what it is. What do you think's going on? What do you think this is all about? Who do you think you are? What do you think English is? How do you really cognize notions like the future, the past, where I've been, what I want? In Moby Dick, Melville says, if you would strike, strike through the mask. Everything is a mask, and just behind that mask lurks, well, what? That's the question. I mean, it's the thing which informs every individual existence, and that's fine, and people have always lived in the shadow of that mystery. But it is our weird privilege to live in an age where there is also to be a collective dropping of the mask, a moment of melting and recasting of what reality itself is to be. So, you know, discussing this, convincing ourselves of it, and then working out the minute details of how it all is inevitable and couldn't be any other way, is how we will occupy ourselves this weekend. I'm really conflicted always in these situations because I feel, for some reason, I suppose it's an ego trip, that I want to be correctly perceived. I, as a person, want to be correctly perceived. And I think of myself as a reasonable person, a person sensitive to concepts like evidence, causality, so forth and so on. And yet, what I have to say is, like, completely unreasonable. I mean, a messenger bearing news of complete madness approaching from all directions. And I got into that position by staying pretty close to the principle of skepticism. I'm not a believer. In fact, when the aliens draped the mantle over my shoulders, they said, it's because you don't believe in anything. This is why you got this far, because you didn't believe in anything. And it's a good method. Normally, it's a method spawned out of futility. You say, well, fuck it, I don't believe in anything. But it's also very good for getting rid of a lot of crap, because the real stuff can take the test of skepticism. The real stuff doesn't have to be bowed down before, and, you know, it works, it's on its own. The news is, and it's very hard news to get out, because it's news about the structure of reality. The news is, coming back from, you know, 50, 60, 100 years of anthropologists, ethnographers, geographers, botanists, dealing with the most quote-unquote primitive people in the most remote parts of the world, the news is that reality is not at all as we imagined it to be. And that our prowess in the technical sciences is simply a cultural artifact, an accomplishment of ours. Some people do great tattoos, we send spacecraft to the stars, but it doesn't mean we understand anymore. And in fact, the evidence is building that our style of society is the historical equivalent of a temper tantrum. You know, that it has no viability, it's completely self-limiting, it's destructive, and it hands nothing on to its receivers. So, I sort of talk to this group, and all the groups that I talk to, from two points of view. I'm trying to convince you of something, and yet reason dictates that I assume that you're already convinced, pretty much. So then it's also an effort to figure out what it is we're so convinced of, and then what is so great about it. Because I think this is a real mystery, the only one I know. This is the thing that you hope exists, and assume doesn't if you're a reasonable person. Because it's that all the dreams of childhood, all the sense of magic, and the dissolvability and transcendability of boundaries, is returned, is affirmed in this experience. Well, yet, here we are, having this on the brink of a planetary meltdown of culture and ecosystem. So, is this just some kind of dancing on the brink? Is it a kind of ultimate self-indulgence? Does it feed back into the central moral problem of the age, which is, what is to be done? What are we to do? How can we be effective, whatever that means? Is there a discernible role for each of us to play in the metamorphosis and near-death of the planet that we are now experiencing? Or are we simply to witness it? Well, I don't think there's any point in thinking about these kinds of questions unless you draw back to the big picture, to first premises. You know, a good example of what I mean is, suppose we save the rainforests and stabilize the population and so forth and so on, and then 50 years down the line, the sun explodes. It means we didn't get it. We were not reading correctly the message nature was trying to hand to us. And so we did the wrong thing and are going to be blown out of the water for such churlishness. So, what's important is to figure out what is going on before you start pushing in the process. And I don't think you can do it from within a culture. In other words, if you're a person of decent intent and moderate intelligence and you read the great minds of your culture and study their thought, it's insufficient because everybody is bound within an illusion of language. The entire enterprise of culture is this illusion of language. Homer was as sick with it as Heidegger. So there's no going back or getting, you know, no classic recension. What we have to do is reach past to some kind of experience. It must be anchored in an experience. But there is this thing about being human, which we as a culture have ignored, repressed, don't want to talk about, face or think about, which is you can get loaded. And nobody knows quite what to make of this. We dance around it with the same kind of furious, ambiguous intensity that we also reserve for sex, which is also a boundary-dissolving, momentary loss of self into some kind of greater whole. And it also just drives us into a frenzy. I mean, we establish boundaries, we have hierarchies, we push it this way and that. It just drives us up the wall. You know, whoever she was who designed this system had the good sense to connect this whole sexual impulse very tightly into the generative process.
 so that there's no way you can get sex out of the human experience. I mean, people have tried in all times and places in many strange ways. A hundred and fifty years ago they were putting pants on pianos because it was thought that young men should not see pianos unclothed because it might excite them to impure thoughts. This is real. In England, in our culture, not New Guinea or the moon, but in England, pianos wore pants. But the psychedelic option is sort of like an appendix. You can have it, but you don't need it, apparently. Apparently, that's the key thing. In other words, whether or not you have the psychedelic experience does not stand between you and the ability to pass on your genes into time. It does not stand between you and continued existence like the autonomic reflex of breathing. It's a kind of potential loop in development which we can, as culturally coordinated creatures, choose to follow or choose not to follow. But this development is very recent. Until, pick a number, ten thousand years ago, the onset of puberty, which was a wave of hormonal release, basically, the onset of puberty was the signal to the social mechanisms of the people to begin the administration of psychedelic plants, to carry people into adulthood, to carry them into a feeling-toned relationship with the mythological material that they had learned as children, but that they now would be expected to exemplify as realized adults within the Lung or Ge culture or whatever it is that they are. We, in our anxiety about all this, and I'll talk about why I'm sure it will come out, but for the present just to say, we have interfered with this and we have enforced upon ourselves a kind of infantilism. Now, this is a phenomenon that's well-known. It's called neoteny. Neoteny is the preservation of adult characteristics into adulthood. Childhood characteristics or infantile characteristics, even fetal characteristics. So, for instance, all primate fetuses are hairless, but only the human being retains this fetal characteristic throughout life. The very large head of the human infant, the percentage relationship to body mass remains very much in the fetal end of the statistics throughout life for human beings. We have large heads. The very prolonged period in which skills, cultural skills are acquired, up to 16 years. Well, this tendency toward biological neoteny, which was reinforced by mutagenic influences in the diet, is carried over into culture as a cultural characteristic. Have you noticed that every generation views the generation it spawns as more childish than itself? And we look back to our rugged grandparents who slogged across the plains, and I suppose they look back to people in chain mail who were only four feet high, who could go without eating for six months or something. And it just gets... We become more and more soft, more and more infantile, and the final phase of this was just the decision that we never needed to grow up at all. We never needed to find out about the nature of our relationship to being at all, and so the psychedelics were suppressed. And what you have in the pre-adolescent child is an extreme expression of ego. And this is, you know, the 11-year-old child, let's take as the example, is the supreme egoist. And in a sense, we got hung up at that place because we didn't get hung up in it, we fell into it. We were in balance, but the suppression of psychedelics created the precondition that allowed the generation of ego. And it's very complicated. A lot of factors were at work, you see. The mushroom style, the shamanic style of the nomadic hunter-gatherer is a style of goddess worship and psychedelic shamanism and orgiastic religion, and the shamanism and the religion overlap each other considerably. The style that replaced that was a style of domination, hierarchy, with alpha males, with powerful males controlling females at the center of these hierarchies. And to my mind, the concern that caused the shift was the accumulation in the psyche of these hominids of enough ego that there became concern for the line of male paternity. In other words, men wanted to know who their children were. And that made the orgiastic style of religion in conflict, because that was all about, the children were the children of the group, and sex was a shared activity, even though there might be bonding. But once people got a man, once men got it into their heads that they wanted to know who their offspring were, then females had to be controlled very rigidly, and there had to be control of sexual... And the whole thing just turned into a nightmare. My women, my property, my children, my food, my territory, so on and so forth. Well, you see, what had been going on before was a true incipient symbiosis. And this is, I think, the new idea that I want to communicate and that I'm absolutely, one, serious about, and two, literal about, that our glory and our uniqueness and why we are as we are is because we are a plant-animal symbiotic species. Our ordinary state, our state of nature, the way in which we existed until 10,000 years ago, was in a very tightly bound symbiotic relationship with plants. They were... We domesticated them, and we spread them, and we created environments for them through the use of burning. And in return for this, this mysterious connection opened up where real information couched in humanly cognizable terms, information about where the reindeer went, who you should marry, what the weather's going to do, stuff like that. Real information began to be traded back and forth. Now, biologists are familiar with the notion of pheromones, message-bearing chemicals that regulate behavior within a species. But we're just getting ready to go to the next level and recognize the possibility of what have been called exo-pheromones, pheromones that regulate behavior between species. And it's very clear that, you know, in climaxed ecosystems of great age, such as the equatorial tropics of this planet, exo-pheromonal interactions become the major mediating force in all the evolutionary exchanges going on. The old notion of competition and survival of the fittest is now seen to be bankrupt. The way nature works is it's the species that can make itself most necessary to other species, the one that can cut energy deals with the most of its neighbors, that is the successful one. So you maximize cooperation, you maximize dependency, you maximize integration. This is the successful evolutionary strategy. I mean, of course you can be a jaguar and crash around in the forest.
 forest and eat things immediately smaller than you, but jaguars will be a memory in the fossil record of this planet when the plants will still exist, given that man were not part of the picture. So the dynamic of life dictates that these energy levels be held very close. How do you explain the ego and the identity and the I and all that stuff? Is that outside of the natural? Well, no, I think nothing is outside of the natural, but all of this can be explained in terms of climatological flux on the African continent. Very briefly, the primates evolved in Africa. Out of the primates came the hominids, which were these gray seal, upright, opposable thumb, binocular vision. There were a number of these and they existed over the past six million years. But Africa and the planet, because of repeated glaciation, is subject to cycles of drying. And every time the ice moved south, primate populations were bottled up in Africa. And we know there have been four glaciations. Immediately the last one, the ice melted 20,000 years ago. And out of Africa that last time came pastoralists, people who had domesticated cattle and had a style of following cattle around rather than being just strictly hunter-gatherers. Well, I maintain what happened was these arboreal tree canopy living apes came under pressure as the continent dried up to expand their diet because the forests were disappearing and being replaced by grassland. Well, most animal species eat only one or two kinds of food. This is a general rule in nature and it's in order to hold down exposure to mutagenic influence. But when an animal population is in a situation of food scarcity, the logical thing to do is to begin to test food sources and to expand your repertoire of food. Well, that's what these primates coming out of the trees did. Number one, they began eating meat, which gave them a real interest that they had never had before in these ungulate mammals that were evolving in the grasslands. And they began to test all kinds of other foods in the environment. Well, when you do that, you are exposing your population to mutation. And mutation rates soar. And it was during this period that the human brain size doubled in like a million and a half years. Someone said it was the most rapid evolutionary expansion of a major organ ever seen in the fossil record. Nothing like it ever happened. Why? What was making this happen? Well, it looks like probably huge numbers of mutations were taking place in this population because people were literally eating anything they could get their hands on. And in this environment of the grasslands, the mushrooms were growing on the dung of these ungulate animals. Well, now a weird thing about psilocybin is that in very low doses, doses so low that you don't feel anything, your vision improves. They've done tests with this. And there is an improvement in visual acuity on psilocybin at low doses. Well, you can imagine the evolutionary impact of something like this on a hunting gathering population where visual acuity is all that stands between you and grim starvation. It means a population of animals, a population of these evolving hominids that accept the mushroom into their diet, have just been given a tremendous leg up on nearby competing troops that don't have it's like chemical binoculars. So immediately then there is a reason, an evolutionary reason for mushrooms to be eaten and for the spread, for mushrooms to be accepted into the diet as an item and so forth and so on. Well, so then you take slightly more mushrooms and like all alkaloids it's a CNS arousal. It means you feel alert, you feel interested, you want a boogie. And also if you're male you can sustain an erection. So arousal means arousal. So then this stuff is an enzyme promoting sexual activity at that level. Well, sexual activity, the number of copulations that occur within a population is directly related to the number of successful impregnations. So suddenly you have these horny primates be a lot of more interest in sexual contact and partners and all that. This means that these psilocybin using creatures that are now more successful at hunting and more interested in sex have all kinds of pressures on them that will force them to outbreed the dull, uninteresting folks who don't use mushrooms at this point. Well, so then yet higher doses, it changes and it's no longer about sexual activity or clarity of vision. It becomes about the psychedelic trip, this tremendum which is as awesome to you and me as it was to these so-called primitive folks 20,000 years ago. We don't know what to make of it. They didn't know what to make of it. They founded a religion about it. We're trying to start the engine of the same religion all over again. And the way in which this religious ecstasis manifests itself is in language activity, in cognition, but in glossolalia, in spontaneous outbursts of syntactically organized vocal activity. Well, the great mystery of human emergence, of course, is language. What is it? Where did it come from? How did it ever get going on such a scale? So forth and so on. But it looks to me like what we're seeing in psilocybin is a kind of neurological enzyme, a catalyst in the environment that could take an evolving primate population and put it through a series of forced changes that produce ultimately a self-reflected minded creature practicing a shamanic mother goddess religion in this nomadic context. And that was paradise. And that was the ideal for the archaic revival. In other words, that Eden actually existed, that we are made for better things than what we've got. You know, it says in Finnegan's Wake, here in Moycayne, Moycayne was the red light district of Dublin, here in Moycayne we flop on the seamy side, but up Nayent, prospector, you sprout all your worth and woof your wings. That's a promise for the future. Up Nayent, you sprout all your worth and woof your wings. But also, Antes, we sprouted our worth and woofed our wings. And this whole nostalgia for a perfected shamanism in prehistory is reasonable, I think. I mean, I think we had something, an unimaginably precious gift. We had consciousness and dynamic order. Consciousness as we experience it now within the confines of history is most analogous to cancer. I mean, it's just, you know, replicating, spreading. But it once was a dynamic, ordered thing. People lived, they died, they made love, they had children, they herded their flocks, they had ecstatic flights into dimensions which we cannot even conceive of. And they felt no need, you know, to break into the earth, to divert the rivers, to do all of this stuff. And, you know, even if we're not aesthetically attracted to that, we have to make a value judgment on it because it was not a runaway process. It did not push everything toward crisis. Okay, well then, so what happened? What the hell happened if that's how it was? Well, you know, nature is just an ongoing story. The very drying processes that created those grasslands, that created those pressures on diet, that created that mother goddess religion, that evolved those ungulate animals, that process continued. And the grasslands dried up. And the winds began to blow. And the water holes got further and further apart from each other. And the mushroom festivals went from every Saturday night.
 to the first Saturday of every month, and then to four times a year, and then to once a year, and then to once every five years, and then to never. And in the absence of the psychedelic experience, this ego thing gets going. I mean, it is literally like a calcareous growth in the bloodstream of the psyche. If you don't inoculate yourself against it, it will begin to take root and grow, and the boundaries of the world begin to move inward, and you no longer see things on a planetary scale or a millennial scale. It's just about, you know, my women, my money, my land, my children, all of this stuff. And at that point, you get the appearance of historical civilizations. You have kingship, kingship, you know, the age of Gilgamesh. I mean, my God, when you read the story of Gilgamesh, you just wonder what's going on. Gilgamesh spurned the goddess, and the goddess sent a bull, which to me is, you know, symbolic of the mystery of the mushroom, the ungulate herding horned animal, the crypto symbol for the goddess. The goddess sends a bull, and he rejects the bull. He rejects the goddess, he rejects the bull. Then he takes Enkidu, the shaman figure, and forces him to go with him into the wilderness. And what do they do in the wilderness? This oldest of all myths, this story of the first men, what do they do? They cut down the tree of life. That's what they do. They cut down the tree of life, and then they, you know, it goes forward. The earliest strata of mythology that comes out of these Middle Eastern civilizations is full of this male-female nature artificial tension. The story of Genesis is a similar thing. I mean, what's happening in Genesis is history's first drug bust. A woman is involved with a plant, and the plant opens their eyes, and they see that they are naked, which happens to be the case, they are naked. So in other words, they see, they grok their true existential condition. And Yawa, wandering around mumbling to himself in the garden, says, this thing that these people have done, what if they eat of the fruit of the tree of life? Then they will be as we are. So it's very clear that there is concern to withhold knowledge that human beings are to be held in an inferior position. Otherwise, if they were to eat of the fruit of the tree of life, of knowledge, they would be as we are. So there's this whole tension. And in the story in Genesis, you'll recall Adam and Eve are cast out of Eden, and an angel is set at the east of Eden with a burning sword. Well, what I take this to be about is the, it's a story from a strata where already the shift to the dominator culture has taken place. But they're looking backward at the partnership society on the grasslands of Africa, and the angel with the burning sword is nothing more than the sun. They literally were cast out of Eden. Eden disappeared around them. It dried up and blew away. And there was nowhere to go but the Nile Valley and Palestine. And these people who appear in the Nile Valley and Palestine at about 9,800 B.C., called Natufayan, come out of nowhere with a very high culture and a tremendous ability to exploit plant resources. And I think they are the remnants of this partnership culture. And you see our, the way in which all this ties into the present and attempts to be more than just a kind of cultural reconstruction of prehistory is we're trying to understand who we are, why we are the way we are. Well, the major thing that now that we have transcended ideology, and nobody gives a hoot whether you're a Marxist or any of that anymore because we've all seen through that, the new issue is human nature. And it evolves around this drug thing, you know. Is it the true and purest expression of human nature that you should drink nothing but cold water and eat nothing but raw vegetables? And any departure from this is an abomination. And then when you get to drugs, you know, this is really an abomination. How, what should be our relationship to substances? And why are we the addictive creatures that we are? I mean, I know that elephants intoxicate on papayas and bumblebees get loaded on sugar water and this and that. But human beings addict to dozens of substances, to behaviors. I mean, all kinds of things. A guy goes out in the morning to pick up his paper off his porch and it's not there. And he has a heart attack. He has to sit down. My God, you know, what am I going to... And he has to have instant relief from the traumatic crisis of the non-presence of the morning information fix. And the phenomenon of falling in love, which doesn't really happen with other animals. I mean, other animals bond, but they don't go bananas in the way that we do on this issue. We're chemically highly cued in a way that a lot of animals around us aren't. So then history, because of this, because of this addictive drive within us, that we have because of this disrupted symbiotic relationship in prehistory. See, we're looking for the score, but we can't quite find it. Imperialism doesn't do it. Heroin doesn't do it. Sadomasochism doesn't do it. Nothing quite does it. But we keep trying stuff. Cocaine, money, fascism, mercantilism, ideology, all of this stuff. We are very, very restless. And the path of our restless, frantic peregrinations across the intellectual landscape is what we call history. It's our effort to try and get straight, get back to something which we feel we deserve and that we lost, and that we don't know quite what it was. Well, meanwhile, in the rainforests, in the Arctic tundra, these little brown people have been keeping the gnosis going, never questioning, never doubting, millennia after millennia, going into these hyperdimensional mind spaces and operating there. While this has been going on, we have been elaborating positivism, scientific philosophy, building atom smashers, so forth and so on. We have created, then, out of our infantile cultural style, what Eric Fromm would call a fecal cultural style, because we just excrete stuff, all kinds of stuff. They have held this mystery. But they, to my mind, the mistake that has been made is that it's been thought that they understood it, that we now go to the shamans and they will explain to us what the inner skinny is on all this. That isn't it. There's no explaining this. Once you've been there, you know the futility of a notion like understanding the psychedelic experience. It's like understanding the ocean or understanding a planetary ecology. We think that things are to be understood, but some things are simply to be, you know, what's the word, appreciated, imbibed, to be in the darshan of them.

Terence McKenna ~ Imagination And The Collectivity Of Life

Anyway, the last point I want to make, because I think this is very important. We all talk about psychedelics, the impact on ourselves, the individual experience. But what are they when you look at a million psychedelic trips? What does it do to society? What it does is it dissolves boundaries. It dissolves the ultimate boundary, which is the ultimate fuck-up, which is ego. Ego is something invented by frightened people 20,000 years ago as a way to suppress women, as a way to suppress sexuality, as a way to suppress the wonder inherent in the world. Psychedelics are catalysts for the human imagination. We were called forth out of monkey existence by the fact that we had strange eating habits. And the consequence of those strange eating habits is now a monkey can dream of transforming its collective soul into a flying saucer. This is the goal that lies ahead at the end of history. History doesn't go on endlessly fluctuating centuries into the future. History is leading toward the transformation of this planet in our lifetime. A cybernetic, biological, psychedelic being, the collectivity not only of humanity but of all life on earth, is struggling to be born. The entire universe of matter is the womb of mind. And it is the task of human beings to lead the collectivity of humanity out of the labyrinth of matter and into the realm of the imagination. The imagination is where we're all going to live. The imagination is the only place where the human soul is at home. Oh lord, oh lord, I feel it, oh lord.

Terence McKenna ~ The New Psychedelics @Ego-Soft, Amsterdam. 1995

So, the way this will work this evening is I'll just talk for a while, and if there's somebody wants to play music, that's their business. And then when that's over, I'll do questions. And I think that's the better part, because it's interactive. Okay, so I'm Terrence McKenna. My pitch is that mushrooms shaped human consciousness, that we wouldn't be here if it weren't for psychedelic plants. Because they promoted the suppression of dominator styles. We created art, theater, philosophy, everything about us that is human, and then we lost it, and we created history, slavery, standing armies, urbanization, monotheism, monogamy, materialism, militarism, and all the other isms that are destroying the planet. And so the way back is through a kind of archaic revival, and the whole of the 20th century has been about this. Everything from jazz, surrealism, psychoanalysis, abstract expressionism, rock and roll, house music, body piercing, tattooing, all of these things are impulses to go back to how it was before history, to go back 10,000, 15,000 years to a set of cultural values that made us happy. And what that meant was a non-material lifestyle, a lifestyle of orgiastic sexuality, wandering, hallucination, myth-making, and hope. The reason these psychedelics, these plants, are so important is because they dissolve boundaries. They dissolve boundaries, and when the boundaries are dissolved, we flow into each other. Men and women, rich and poor, ultimately the living and the dead. This is what shamanism is about, ancestor worship, magic through the ancestors. So part of what's happening is that time is accelerating. Time is moving at a faster and faster rate. This isn't an illusion. It isn't something just happening in human society. It's something which is actually built in to the laws of physics, something that science has missed. Science has overlooked two facts about reality that are going to help us make a revolution. The two facts are, first, that nature, the cosmos, is a novelty-conserving engine. What I mean by that is that each level of novelty that is achieved becomes the foundation for the next level of novelty. So upon atoms are built molecules. Upon molecules, membranes. Upon membranes, cells. Upon cells, multicellular life. Upon multicellular life, primitive animals. Upon them, advanced animals. Upon them, culture. Upon culture, global electronic culture. So what that means is a revolution in how we see ourselves because we are the most novel entities on this planet. Our bodies, our minds, our civilization is the inheritor of all the novelty that has been produced over the life of the earth. That's the first thing that science has overlooked. The second thing science overlooked is that each advance into novelty proceeds more quickly than the stage which preceded it. This is how it is that time is a spiral moving ever faster, ever more quickly around a kind of attractor, a kind of transcendental object at the end of time that is pulling us toward itself through the dimensions, sculpting us out of matter, calling forth cultures, mythologies, languages, building, accelerating, complexifying faster, faster, faster. And now, at the end of the 20th century, with 6 billion people on the planet, information instantaneously transmittable around the planet, now all curves can be accelerated toward infinity. The number of people, the amount of energy being released, the amount of information being transmitted around the planet, the amount of potential creativity in the human population. And what this is doing is it's causing us to prepare for a kind of leap into a new cultural dimension. This isn't like the Italian Renaissance. It isn't like the discovery of language. The only thing that's ever happened on this planet that is comparable to what we are about to undergo is that distant moment 700 million years ago when life left the oceans. Some oxygen-addicted fish finally decided to make the break with the water and dragged itself gasping into a shallow pool there at the edge of an ancient sea, and that became the first step forward into the new dimension of space, space on the land. We come at the end of that process, and so the leap that we make is a similar leap into a higher dimension, a leap driven by electronic technology, psychedelic drugs, syncopated music, unleashed sexuality, and a desire to transcend history. Because history has failed. History led us down a blind path, and now, after a thousand years of positivism, materialism, reductionism, male dominance, cities, slavery, political ideology, we see what this is for us as human beings. It is intolerable. It creates a world that no one is comfortable with. This is why I believe the 20th century has been driven by this nostalgia for the distant past, for the archaic. We are trying to make our way back to the last sane moment we ever knew, and the last sane moment that we ever knew was literally 15,000 to 20,000 years ago, when people followed their thoughts, fucked in a heap, intoxicated themselves with mushrooms, and lived in the body, lived the felt presence of immediate experience. This is what has been taken from us by propaganda, ideology, religion, abstraction, all these inventions of the Greek and European cultures.
 mind have tended us to carry us further and further away from authentic experience. This is why psychedelic drugs, trance dancing, and sexuality make the dominators so uncomfortable, because these things represent people taking back their planetary birthright. What we're talking about here is people taking back their own minds. So, like many of you, I came up doing LSD, doing cannabis, thinking of these things as part of the 20th century experience. It took the Amazon to convince me that actually this is how religion was done for the first million years. Religion is not ideology. Religion is not moral laundry lists of do's and don'ts. Religion is the authentic experience of the holy other. This is what Rudolf Botto said, the authentic experience of the holy other, the alien, the unimaginable. And we now can only reach these things through psychedelics, because our culture has completely sealed us away from all other avenues of authentic experience. Everything comes packaged. Everything comes having been put through the sieve of Western ideology. What pushed me through to this understanding was the discovery of DMT in my own life many, many years ago. I was an LSD aficionado, assumed myself to be very sophisticated, so forth and so on. And finally someone came to me and they said, there's something you should know about. And I said, what is it? And they said, it's a new substance, a new experience. And I only asked one question, how long does it last? And they said it lasts five minutes. So I didn't hesitate. When I smoked DMT, I was immediately conveyed into a dimension that I previously couldn't even have imagined. I took two enormous tokes. I saw a kind of mandala-like form, a kind of floral, turning, symmetrical, orange form. And then it was as though I burst through it. It was like breaking through a membrane. I could hear the crackle, like the crunching of a bread wrapper or flame. And then I was in a narrow tunnel, fluctuating, pushing me by disystolic pressure down an undulating corridor. And at the bottom of that slope, at the end of that corridor, there was something waiting for me that I could scarcely wrap my mind around. And what it was, was an elf nest, a domain filled with jeweled, self-dribbling basketballs, howling elfin forms from another dimension that would scramble toward me, squealing and greeting, and then jump into my body, into my chest, and then jump out, crawling over me, howling, telling me over and over again, We love you. We love you. And what these things were doing was they were using their voices to make objects. They possessed a language that condenses objects out of the air so that they would come toward me and then say, Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. And each one of these things was like a jewel, a machine, an animal, something made out of gold, agate, chalcedony, jello, glass, heat, light, flesh, something unimaginable that was changing constantly as I looked at it. And I realized as I looked at these things that if you could bring a single one of these objects into this world, this world would never be the same again. All you would have to do is walk up to someone and say, Look at this. And they would immediately understand what I was understanding, which was this is impossible. This is impossible in any world I've ever heard of or been in, and yet it's happening. Okay, so now think about it. I didn't have to go to Tibet. I didn't have to spend 12 years sweeping up around the ashram. I didn't have to submit myself to some beady-eyed weasel in a dhoti. All I had to do was take two tokes and hang on. This dimension that is so alien, so history-shattering is nevertheless right here, right now. It's just two tokes away through some kind of pharmacological energy barrier. And yet, and yet, millions of people throughout human history have gone from birth to the grave and never had even a suspicion that this was possible. That I can't put up with. It gives me the creeps. It's like somebody telling you that they went, that they lived to age 60 and they never had sex. The question is, what did you do with your humanness? What did you do with your existence as a human being? The world is full of these kinds of mysteries, but they belong to the courageous, and they are to be sought in the mind, in the darkness of the intoxicated mind, with breath control and attention. They are not for the holy ones among us. They are not for the pure among us. They are for everyone. It is a democratic reality. It's another dimension. And human art, human science, human cultural striving, I believe, is an unconscious effort to come into contact with this precise kind of reality. What does it mean, then, to us? It means that we possess a tool for overturning the linear, uniform, constipated, moralistic assumptions of dominator culture. They've missed the entire point. Apparently, Western civilization is a kind of prison against reality. We have all been placed in a domain where reality can never reach us. And yet, and yet, in the rainforests, in the cultures that never made the descent into history, the flame was kept, the knowledge of how to penetrate into these bizarre, alien dimensions. The way it's done is through shamanism, through psychoactive plants, through syncopated music.
 through edge-running, chance-taking, intoxication, ecstasy, sexuality, understanding. The universe wants to be understood. And the act of understanding it transforms us to the point that we are unrecognizable to each other. So that was part of it. Simply the discovery of the psychedelic experience, what it meant to me and to my friends as a force that could completely shatter, transform, reshape an individual life. But there is more to it than that. It is not simply neurological chaos, or the Freudian unconscious, or the Jungian unconscious. The reason it is so important is because when the psychedelics dissolve boundaries, we merge again with the living entelechy of nature. The Gaian mind is a real intelligence which completely surrounds the planet and which is composed of all living things on the planet. And we alone, through the perversion of culture and language, have wandered away from this understanding. This is the source of our cosmic loneliness. The fact that for us, some 10,000 years ago, the psychedelic connection became severed. This is why we use drugs, so many different kinds of drugs. I mean, some animals, you know, elephants will push down fences to eat fermenting papaya and so forth and so on. But human beings have a unique relationship to drugs. There is in us some deep, unmet need that propels us to try cocaine, heroin, religion, money, Marxism, deconstructionism, fashion, you name it. We are restless with a feeling of abandonment, and this is symptomatic of a traumatic childhood. Something happened to us 15, 20,000 years ago that has left us forever lacking inner peace, forever reaching beyond ourselves. And I think that it was this fall out of a connection with nature. It was a great tragedy when the climatic forces in Africa that brought the partnership society into being, when those forces then caused the mushrooms to disappear. Because once they disappeared, we returned to a much more animalistic style of existence. I mean, here's the deal. All primates, all monkeys have what are called dominance hierarchies. It means that the hard-bodied, long-fanged young males control women, the elderly, children, homosexuals, all minority art, poetry, theater, ethics, philosophy, astronomy, mathematics, everything that makes us human. And then we parted company with the mushrooms. And that was a dark, dark moment for the human march into time. That was the moment when agriculture, history, cities, kingship, all the institutions that have evolved into the pathological world we see around us were set into place. So, essentially, our consciousness is an artifact of a relationship to a psychedelic plant that no longer exists for us unless we make a conscious individual effort to go back to these shamanic practices. And when we do that, we lose interest in products. We lose interest in the news. We lose interest in dominating each other. We become much more interested in sex, in dancing, in philosophy, and in feeling the experience of our own bodies. This is what I mean by taking back our minds. It's not for nothing that in this very dark moment of our cultural history, anthropologists bring us the news from many parts of the world concerning psychoactive plants and shamanism. It's not for nothing that our impulse to tattoo, to jazz, to house music, to rock and roll, to abstract expressions, all these 20th century impulses are paths back toward this authentic, archaic feeling of existential validity. I learned these things in the Amazon. I discovered psychedelics at Berkeley in the 60s. But it took the Amazon to show me how it connected up with human cultural history and the evolution of cultures generally. Now, in the 60s, these substances were called consciousness-expanding drugs. Just a simple phenomenological description. Consciousness-expanding drugs. Imagine for a moment that this is true. If it's true, or if there's a chance in a thousand that it's true, then we must explore these things. Because it's a lack of consciousness that is pushing us toward the brink of some kind of a catastrophe. It's the lack of consciousness that permits the spread of nuclear weapons, the rebirth of fascism, the toxification of the oceans, the degradation of the atmosphere, the proliferation of the schemes of male politicians. It's lack of consciousness that stands between us and the kind of world that we want to create and live in. So we must use all the tools that we have in the cultural toolkit. And it turns out these are the oldest tools. These are the most dependable tools. These are the tools that we can rely on. Now, in the absence of psychedelics, what happens to a person is that they develop an ego. The ego is a very late-arriving component of the psyche. The ego is less than 15,000 years old. It's like a cancer or a calcareous growth. In the absence of psilocybin, it takes root in the personality, and soon the entire personality is being dominated by the ego. The solution to this problem is boundary-dissolving psychedelic experiences. When you start from a position of ego, it takes great courage to take psychedelics. Because the ego will tell you, as you plunge into the psychedelic state, the ego will tell you, you are dying. You are dying. You've done it this time. At that point, what you have to do is turn to the ego and say, no, you are dying. You are dying.
 And I will stand here and watch it happen. And when you are gone, the real structure of the human being will emerge. The real, archaic, genetically driven architecture of the personality will emerge. Now, there's a big political hassle about these substances because no government, democrat, fascist, socialist, you name it, no government is interested in having its people ask basic questions about freedom, responsibility, and identity. And no matter who you are, if you take psychedelics, rainforest Indian, Hasidic rabbi, Japanese stockbroker, whoever you are, you will question the values of your society. You will become a force for social change and redefinition. So, the Tolstoyan question, what is then to be done? What is to be done? We have to support each other. We have to build community. You know, Tim Leary said, find the others. Find the others. And psychedelics are only half of the equation. The other tool in our evolutionary toolbox, I believe, is technology. The only difference between a computer and a drug is that a computer is too large to swallow. Computers can help us find the others. Through the networks, we can build an invisible web of connections, exactly as a mushroom builds an invisible web of connections. And we can become invisible, so invisible that we need not exercise our power at all. Because what we have with us is the momentum from the past drawing us into the future. One model of psychedelics that I like very much is that when you take psychedelics, the mind, which has, you know, here's the deal, mind takes the shape of its container. Mind takes the shape of its container. The ordinary container for mind is the paranoid animal, fearing attack, fearing death, fearing hunger. When we recast the mind, it actually unfolds into a higher dimension. It actually becomes a global, a universal phenomenon. The information is there, and it allows you to feel the future. It allows you to see the past. It allows you to reach beyond the boundaries of conventional thinking. And when you do that, you empower yourself because you see that there is nothing to fear. There is nothing to fear. That message, that death holds no terror, that risk is always repaid, that nature loves courage, is the message that we've forgotten. The way the shaman is able to dance in the waterfall is through an enormous act of trust in nature, an enormous act of courage. We are now drawing back, preparing to make a leap into an entirely new order of existence. It's like trying to redesign an aircraft for supersonic flight while in flight. We must redesign our culture so that the stress, the vibratory shock of moving into hyperspace doesn't rip the cultural structure to pieces, and we haven't large amounts of time. There is a, well, we have a great ally in all of this. The universe is not running down into entropy. The universe does not want to become a dead machine. The universe wants greater cohesion, more love, more beauty, more integration. This is what novelty is. Someone said to me yesterday, the most flexible person in any situation controls the situation, and they control the situation through abandonment of control. This is a sin idea that you steer by not steering, that you serve by not serving. We are both being asked to make a tremendous act of political commitment to a new reality, and we are also being asked to simply let it happen. Simply to let it happen. So when people ask, what is to be done? This old question. The answer comes in a series of negatives. It isn't a political program. What we should do is never follow. Never follow. You should leave. Never believe. Belief is ideology, and ideology is poison. Never follow. Never believe. Do not consume. Do not consume. It is acts of material consumption that are destroying the planet. If you have to make something, make music, make dance, make peace, make love, but not objects, not aircraft, bombs, toys, fashion. All of this is, at best, distraction, at worst, poison. Do not consume. Do not make. Do not watch. Do not watch. Millions of people are being warehoused in toxic, low-awareness lives in front of televisions, where the poisonous messages of the consumer-driven media are the entire reality of their lives. This is where fascism gets its hooks into body politic. Among the low-consciousness, larval, warehoused lifeforms who live in a world of cosmetically-enhanced product surfaces and political propaganda, do not watch. Do not watch. The other thing is, do not multiply. There are enough people on this planet, and if you must multiply, make sure that your offspring is female, because our problem as a culture is an overexpression of maleness. The way to deal with this is not to try to feminize men. Men are men. They should not be feminized. But if we as a culture believe that feminine values need to be brought forward, then let's simply work it out so that there are fewer men. Then, very naturally, the feminization of cultural values will occur. So these are very practical.
 Not to follow, not to believe, not to watch, not to multiply, not to consume. If we do these things, and we often, and at high doses, go to the guy in mind, five grams in silent darkness, this should be the battle cry. If we do these things, we will discover under all the crap of civilization that the angelic nature is still intact. Humanness is still intact. It has not been betrayed. It has only been delayed. And the rainforest cultures, the shamanic cultures that exist all over the world are waiting to show us the way back. We are like the prodigal son. We made a journey into matter 15,000 years long. We built the new toolkit of technology, computers, global transfer of information. And now, now, we must place these tools at the service of a Gaian and psychedelic agenda. If we do this, the transcendental object at the end of time, the attractor that is shaping all of nature and all of the human experience will be able to manifest itself. This is what we're going toward. We are preparing for the great, great adventure, and we cannot take very much cultural baggage with us. The best metaphor that I have come upon is the metaphor of birth. When you are first a fetus, you live in an amniotic ocean that seems endless. But as you grow in the womb, eventually the resources are consumed, the boundaries are encountered, the pressures mount, and eventually, in the process of birth and transition, you are forced into the birth canal. You are being crushed. You cannot breathe. You assume you are dying. The fetus cannot imagine the world that lies outside the womb. We are the fetus of the planet. We are the children of the planet. But we have been brought to this stage of development in order to make the transition into another mold of being entirely. And there is no way that we can anticipate this. No prophet, no shaman can see beyond a certain point in this process. And beyond that point lies the great unknown, to which we must commit ourselves if we hope to have any kind of existence in the future. So, I'm sure I'm not telling you anything new here. These are the ideas that we as a community and the other members of this community scattered around the planet understand intuitively. But we need to articulate this inside the Dalai Lama culture. For too long, we have been in the closet. For too long, we have accepted drug laws which amount to religious persecution. For too long, we have hidden ourselves away from the eyes of polite society. Now, at the end of the millennium, with a global electronic culture as a support group, we can make this transition to a domain of hope and creativity like nothing we have previously supposed or imagined. And I think that's all I want to say about that. And then I'll take questions. Thank you. One more thing. Before I take questions, it might come up in the questions. But in case it doesn't, there's something I want to tell you that's not such high-flown philosophical raving. But it must be told. And that is, a new psychedelic has been discovered that is active in the microgram range, exactly as LSD is. But it's not related to LSD at all. Nor is it related to any other known psychoactive substance. And this substance is smoked. But the point that I want to make here about it is, it is legal. Yeah, but how do I get it? Well, I'm going to tell you. But first of all, I want to tell you, it is legal. It is legal to possess. It is legal to manufacture. It is legal to advocate. It is legal to do on stage, in public, in therapy. Legal, legal, legal. So what is it? It comes from a plant with a history of shamanic usage. The plant is called salvia divinorum. The compound is called salvorin alpha. 300 micrograms. That's three grains of sugar worth. You vaporize it off a piece of tin foil, and it comes on so quickly that it doesn't come on at all. It's simply that after a while, you notice that you're looking at something incomprehensible, and you have been for some time. The plant is legal. It's sold by rare plant dealers in the United States and in England and presumably on the continent. All you need to know is the name of the plant, and you can track it down. Salvia, S-A-L-V-I-A. Divinorum, the diviner's mint. Ovos de la pastora, the eyes of the shepherdess, it's called by the Indians who use it. And it is dramatic. It is dramatic. I mean, DMT test pilots come back quite knuckled in action from these places. So this is a great challenge to the community. Interestingly, no laws have to be changed. It is legal in every country on this planet, as I speak. So if we behave responsibly and move quickly and stockpile and produce this stuff, we will simply completely go around this whole issue of drug legality and availability. The other thing is, as a plant, you can take this stuff. You can take 20 leaves and put them in your mouth and lie down in silent darkness where you can see a digital clock. And after 15 minutes, spit this stuff out and just lie there. And within two or three minutes, it will begin what's called hypnagogic streaming. That means violet and chartreuse and neapolite forms flowing past your eyes. And then about a minute after that, it begins to really build and build. And the hallucinations are extremely peculiar and extremely bright. I did it recently in Hawaii. And in a dark room with moonlight flooding in, with my eyes open, there was nothing going on. In a situation where hallucination is very common, but when I closed my eyes, it was as dramatic as switching on a light in a dark room. It was instantly there. I mean, I just closed my eyes, and it was there. An indescribably bizarre, non-DMT-like, evolving geometric modality in deep blues and violets that was touched with the strangeness of those realms. So that's just the evening news of the psychedelic world. It lasts 45 minutes, and the question is, is it friendly?
 I'll tell you a story. The first time I took it, someone came to me and said, you've got to try this, and it's this amazing thing, and so forth and so on. So, I did it, and I was very nervous, because, you know, when you take new drugs, you are basically, you have no idea what you're setting yourself up for. Anyway, I took it, and the hallucinations came on, and what they were was, they were fuzzy bunnies, little kitties, dancing canaries, and I was saying, like, you know, okay, it's all right, I'm reassured, you don't have to insult me. It was like a psychedelic for eight-year-olds. Now, I've done it a number of times, and it no longer is so gentle, it becomes more what it is, the ding on seesh of the thing, you know, what it is for itself, and it is bizarre, pardon me? A lot of give and take, and what it says, and I haven't crossed this threshold, but what it says when you see these three-dimensional hallucinations is, it says, get up, walk in, and what I said was, but I'll stumble over furniture in the real world, I'll do this and that. It said, no, get up, walk in. Many people are reporting that this is a very place-like drug, in the same way that DMT seems more like a place than an intoxication. And this morphogenetic field is waiting to be explored, and so I hope all of you will locate and grow this plant. It will grow in this country easily outdoors. It looks like Joe Plant. It has no particularly interesting characteristics at all. And we need to produce a world where this stuff grows along every railroad track and every vacant lot on the planet. Okay, that's my spiel. Now I'm happy to do questions. Just a minute. Hey! The question is, does this drug make the virtual reality and multimedia thing irrelevant? It was nothing above real reality. Real reality is an interesting philosophical concept. Somebody said, Prozac makes you so you're not yourself, to which I replied, I haven't drawn an unstoned breath since 1965. Talking about my real self is a little superfluous. But to answer your question, I don't think so, because the importance of virtual reality as I see it, is it is a technology that will allow us to show each other our dreams. We will be able to build structures in the imagination that we cannot now share with each other. I imagine a world where children begin to build their virtual realities by the time they're 5, 6, 7. Well, by the time they're 20, these virtual realities may be, practically speaking, the size of Manhattan. Well, then what real intimacy will mean is saying to someone, would you like to visit my world? My world, with my visions, my values, my dreams, my fears. In a sense, what virtual reality is, is a strategy to let us turn ourselves inside out, so that we see each other's minds. You know, octopi wear their minds on the outside of their bodies. Octopi communicate by changing colors and the smoothness of their bodies. They wear their meaning. We have an organ that we can do this with, but it's very limited. It's called a face. If you look at people's faces and you are open, you can see into the mind. But virtual reality is going to allow us to share much, much more of ourselves. After all, my reality is not how I look. My reality is who I am. And the only way I could give that to you is if I could invite you inside. So, I think this hasn't much been said about virtual reality because it doesn't interest the commercial people who are developing it, but I think this is what it will eventually be. A tool for sharing our dreams and the insides of our heads. Yeah. Who am I and what is who am I? Well, yes, what is my reality? I don't think I have a ready answer. I mean, I could try an answer. If you mean what is it like to be me, it's exactly what it's like to be you. One of the things I've noticed going around doing these kinds of talks is that I truly believe that any one of you could do this. How are you what? How are you? Half in and half out. You're okay. I'm okay. Do I like DE? No, no. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't discuss the chemistry. How would you compare it to, say, I mean, a more common description of DMT is like 15 minutes of oh, wow, and DET is two hours of yeah. Well, that's about right. I mean, here's the thing. With those tryptamines, what seems to happen is the longer the trip, the lower the spike. So, with DMT, it's this incredible spike and it's over in four minutes. With DET, it's a lower spike and a longer trip. To go back to your other question, just in case there are chemists here, the active principle in salvia divinorum is salvorin alpha. It's an isoquinoline. It's the only isoquinoline hallucinogen ever discovered. It's not an alkaloid. It's not an indole. This is astonishing that 50 years into the psychedelic revolution we could discover a new mega hallucinogen active in the microgram range. It just shows you we don't really know what's out there. This was one of dozens of plants carried on the books for years as possibly psychedelic and it wasn't discovered in the laboratories. It was discovered by underground chemists in L.A. This is entirely an underground operation. This salvia divinorum thing. So it shows really that in the domain of psychedelic research our people, not Bayer, not Sandoz, not J.P. Lilly, but the underground is where the research is happening and where the discoveries are being made. Do you want me to talk about that? No, it's a completely different thing. Santo Daime is, well there's a plant combination in the Amazon called ayahuasca which moved down into Brazil in the early years of this century where it's now called ayahuasca and there are two religious groups in Brazil Santo Daime and Uduve or Union do Vedipal and they take their recipe of ayahuasca in a group setting and I understand that some missionaries from these religions have been coming to Europe and America spreading their particular style of psychedelic religion. It's similar to, in style to the peyote church.
 It's done by men, women, and children. Many of the Santo Daime people are members of the Brazilian middle and upper class. It's very respectable there, probably because it comes out of their own native forests. In the States, it's very much stigmatized. Ayahuasca is essentially a strategy for oral activation of DMT. It's a way to take DMT, which if you normally took DMT orally, it would be destroyed in your gut. But if you take it with an MAO inhibitor, it can survive the chemical environment of the intestines and pass into the bloodstream. So Ayahuasca is another one of these shamanic hallucinogens that are making their way into Western society. And it's always been done in a religious context. I'm hopeful that in the United States, this will allow it to be used because the freedom of religion clause of the constitution should protect it. Although it didn't save the Mormons their polygamy and it didn't save the peyotes for white people. So we have to see. Offer both. Inevitably, the right to explore your own mind is about as fundamental a right as one can imagine. And the idea that governments would seek to legislate states of mind is an outrageous affront to the idea of human freedom. Yeah. I'm gonna ask you something about the experiences you've had when you've talked about the invisible landscape. It sounded as Dennis, if you could talk a little bit about the sound that Dennis made. And I would also like to know what your views are on reproducing the sound of general consumption. Well, Dennis had this idea, which is on some levels, fairly conventional, that you can use sound to pump energy into a chemical system. And there is an entire branch of chemistry called acoustical chemistry. He believed that under the influence of psilocybin and ayahuasca, you could cancel the various electron spin resonance signatures of these molecules and drive them into a superconducting state in the DNA. And I'm not an acoustical engineer, so I don't know what you call this kind of sound, but this is what it sounds like. It sounds like this. I think that's called, well, I don't know. It's an asymptotic scale of some sort. There are many different kinds of acoustical sounds. The kind that interests me are the spontaneous glossolalias that come from psilocybin that I believe were the basis of language. I think that long before there was meaning, there was language, and that people made strange mouth noises for each other as a form of entertainment and amusement. And it was only very late in the evolution of language that some very practical alpha male decided we would assign special meanings to certain words. The kind of glossolalia that I like sounds like this. koge People did that for a long time before they learned to tell jokes, I'm sure. Anybody? Yep. I'm gonna have a long. It's a piece done as a mutual form. It has more dad jokes and solo jokes. Do drugs done in a ritual form have more efficacy than solo journeys? Well, solo journeys have a ritual form. I mean, I'm not big on ritual in the sense of, well, the mushroom once said to me, I didn't even ask the question, it said, ritual is what you do when you don't know what to do. But ritual on another level, I mean, for instance, here's how I take mushrooms. I don't eat for six hours, which is not fasting. I don't call that fasting. I just call it getting your stomach empty. I don't eat for six hours. Then I unplug the telephone. I lock the door. I wait till it's 10 o'clock at night. And then I take five dried grams of Stropharycubansis or three dried grams of the European, the psilocybe semi-lansiatic. This is a lot. This is a lot. This is probably close to 30 milligrams. And then I smoke dope and I sit and I wait. And at the hour and 20 minute mark, when I feel it beginning to cut in, I smoke and usually that brings it in. And then I just sit with it. Sometimes I never move in a trip. I sit for four to five hours. And then when it's over with, I eat. I don't go to sleep. If you sleep without eating, when you wake up the next day, you'll feel like shit. So eat, eat before you sleep. And fruit or something like that. I mean, it doesn't have to be a feast, but something. And that's all there is to it. A silent darkness on an empty stomach. Pay attention. It's weird. People don't understand how to look at the back of their eyelids. It's like they don't get it. You're supposed to look at the back of your eyelids with the expectation that you're going to see something. That's all. And it's, you know, it's weird. I mean, I talked once with Roland Fisher, who was this Viennese scientist who had given psilocybin to 2,500 graduate students and so forth and so on. And I said to him, I said, Roland, what do you think of the hallucinations when you close your eyes? And he said, I never closed my eyes. This guy had taken it 60 times and never closed his eyes. That's crazy as far as I can figure out. I mean, for Christ's sake, close your eyes. It also helps to shut up, you know? And then I contradict myself. It also helps to not shut up. One thing people don't understand, like people, Westerners especially, when the going gets rough, and if you take psychedelics often, sooner or later you will have a long, hard evening. When the going gets rough, you don't clench and get in the fetal position, and what you do is you sing. That's what the shamans do. You sing. It doesn't matter what you sing. The idea is sit up, open your mouth, and sing.  Row, row, row your boat gently down the stream   Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily, life is but a dream  Sing, and then it will move. It will move on you, but if you clench, then it's just as hell, you know? And that's, it's very simple. It's so simple. I, this, this whole thing about psychedelics, it's like the best kept secret in human history.
 I've been standing up in front of audiences like you for 12 years, telling the secret over and over again. And it's still a secret. It's still a secret. Sorry. How can we take selfie adenorin to the people who have not such a good dreams? I mean, whose world is not so beautiful as it can be? Because I think there must be more spoken. Get some of that. Take it. Well, I think... Well, you sort of, you have to make a decision here. The reason I smoked DMT without fear was because I've been told it only lasts three minutes. If I've been told it was the strongest hallucinogen on the planet, I might have had a different attitude. You sort of have to decide which is harder. Three minutes of the very, very dense stuff or four and a half hours at 30% strength. I sort of think the hit them hard and fast theory is the way to go. DMT is for the people who say, oh, you people who take drugs. You're just soft in the head. Give me a bourbon and water and I am fine. These are the people. And anyone who is a critic of drugs, of psychedelics, should be asked a question. Well, it only takes 10 minutes to do a DMT trip. Have you done your homework? You're so full of criticism. Are you willing to invest 10 minutes in seeing what it's about? And they'll never be the same. You've got them then. So, you know, choose your weapon according to the task at hand. How do you remember? Well, it's very tricky. I mean, the first time I did DMT, after it was over, all I could say was I can't believe it. I cannot believe it. I don't believe it. I can't believe it. It's impossible. But after saying that for 15 minutes, I no longer knew what I was talking about because I not only couldn't believe it, I couldn't remember it either. So, what? Yes, it does. And did you all hear what he said? He said, does it fade like a dream or it fades like a dream? It not only fades like a dream. I think the chemistry of dreaming and the chemistry of DMT is similar. I think that every night we go deep, deep into these places. But if you have no language for something, you can't tell anybody about it. You can't even tell yourself about it if you have no language for it. So, DMT is a catalyst for language development. And then a very practical strategy for remembering is tell it as you're coming out of it. Tell it when you're a minute away from it, two minutes away from it, five minutes away from it. Try and build up a composite picture. You know, even though I go around talking about this stuff, I'm completely convinced that most of my DMT trips lie beyond my reach. I mean, it literally cannot be told because language has developed in the three-dimensional and familiar world. And if you're plunged into an utterly unfamiliar world where there is no up, no down, no past, no future, no three-dimensional space, no foreground, no background, then you literally, you cannot tell it. This is why the great frustration of my own life is that I am not a great painter, a great artist, because we need to send people who can paint what they see, who can, through computers and sculpture and whatever, carry the message back. If you push those 100% alpha males into those regions, they go nuts. They are nuts. They are nuts. I mean, Tim Leary, actually Tim Leary denied ever saying this once when I gave him credit for it. But someone very wise once said, LSD is a psychedelic drug that occasionally causes psychotic behavior in people who have not taken it. I would bet you that more people have exhibited psychotic behavior from not taking LSD than from taking it. So, the question is, can you use harming and mushrooms to get a DMT effect? Smoking it. So, this is a good area to experiment with. A very nice thing to do is to take like a half a dose of mushrooms and then roll up a bunch of joints of Banisteriopsis capibarc or Pagamin harmalis seeds, some source of a vegetable MAO inhibitor. And when you take a hit on this MAO inhibiting joint, the hallucinations will sort of come into view and perform for a few minutes and then fade out of view. Then you can take another hit and it will happen again. And you can do this 20 times in a night. We called it, when we discovered it in the Amazon, we called it vegetable television. I don't think I'd call it that now. But the reason it seemed like television was because these hallucinations were not at all threatening. They were just simply beautiful and there and you could watch them and then they would fade away and then you could bring them back. So, if you're of an experimental nature, this playing with MAO inhibition in the presence of your system loaded with alkaloids is a great way to go. Yeah. Widen the field of what is possible, yeah. How far does it go? Well. I think so. My impression is that when you go into these places, you not only see things that nobody has ever seen before, but you see things that no one will ever see again. That this dimension is so huge that the idea of returning to the same place is almost impossible. The American writer John Crowley once said, the further in you go, the bigger it gets. And I think this is true. What does it mean? What does it do for us here? Well, to me, I mean, I'm basically philosophically a Platonist. And Plato said, the good and the true are the beautiful. The good and the true are the beautiful. So, what psychedelics do for me is, it's like an orgasm of beauty. It affirms beauty, and beauty affirms what is good and true. So, to me, it's an expression of, it's the discovery that the universe is beautiful, that it cares for us, that it is coherent, and that it is a mystery. A mystery is not an unsolved problem. That's how a scientist thinks of mystery. A mystery is not an unsolved problem. A mystery is a mystery. And it's the absence of these kinds of mysteries.
 in our lives that have made us into materialists, Marxists, existentialists, capitalists, and so forth and so on. So, for me, the psychedelics are the rediscovery of the authentic dimension of mystery and being. The only thing comparable is sex, but it's very different from sex. Yes. Well, I think the other thing that it teaches you is that your reality is a cultural construct. What we call reality is not reality. It's just the reality of being German or French or Japanese. You see, because what happens is, by the time you're three years old, four years old, you have been given a word for everything. And these words are like tiles, and you just cover over reality. Here we have a bird, but once we have the word bird, the mystery of birdness is replaced by the fact of the word. And a child learning its native language is slowly building a prison for itself inside conventional expectation. And what the psychedelic does is it completely shows you that you were inside a cultural set of conventions and that they were no more than that. And that's tremendously liberating, I think. Sorry, do you think that intelligence is possible without the support of the mass? I mean, we have an imprint of our mind, but we are pulled back at the time. Do you think that existence without mass is possible? Yes, good question, and it gives me a better answer to your question. The other thing that I think psychedelics teach, if you do it, this is not what it teaches the first time, but if you give your life to it, it teaches you that death is not dissolution. It teaches you to overcome the one truth that we all accept from science, which is that when you die, you're compost, and that's it. I don't believe it. I think psychedelics secure the existence of the human personality beyond death. And that alone would justify the whole razzmatazz. Perhaps in this body, yeah? Yeah. Perhaps you're in this body, which means the soul. Yes, so I think the body is the placenta of the soul. And that when the soul is finished, it can sever its connection to the body. We can bury the body under the apple tree, and the soul will then proceed with its career in a dimension that we cannot even conceive of. From a technological point of view, you can say that the spirit fades away, like our mass fades away too. There's one molecule that goes into the ocean, another one goes up into the air. And with the spirits of the human bodies, it will be the same thing. That is something that with the technology of quarks, you have messengers. Every molecule has an imprint on the nothingness. There's nothing, and there's a universe. Everything has its own meaning. And when you have an imprint of a molecule that says, I'm water, you have another molecule that says, together we are ice. So there's a bigger imprint. A whole body can tell, this is my body. When you feel something staring behind you, it's your aura that feels the other aura. You know what I mean? But when the mass is gone, then it fades away. But I think that the spirit, don't you think the spirit fades away too? Unless there's a strong attachment to a place like you have here. Well, I'm very suspicious of trying to understand reality through particle physics or something like that. I think the world is not made of quarks or electrons. No, no, no. It's made of language. Yes, information. Yes. So what we're learning from things like Bell's theorem and stuff like that is that information is holographically and fractally everywhere. Well, if that's true, then the concept fades away can't exist. Nothing can fade away if all information is holographically and fractally embedded in every iota of space and time. So I would say no. I'd go with William Blake who said nothing is lost. Nothing is ever lost. Yeah. Would you cooperate in an experiment where children are brought up with your type of drugs instead of regular culture? They are. Like from babyhood. Well, I don't  I'm not sure it's necessary to do that. I have a 16-year-old son and he's certainly been brought up in an alternative style and I'm very happy with the results. I've been with tribes that give their children  they put ayahuasca on the woman's nipples when the baby is four days old. And ayahuasca tastes weird. I mean it's sour and it's just strange. These Aguarinajivaro people, they are exposing their children to these things from three days old and up. And it's a very shamanic, metastable rainforest culture. You can think of thousands of things that we could do with psychedelics if they were legal to work on and if careers could be made of them. We've never explored paranormal phenomena with psychedelics. We've never explored curing physical conditions with psychedelics. We've never explored trying to solve complex mathematical problems intoxicated on psychedelics. I mean people report breakthroughs in all these areas, individual anecdotal stories. But if what this is is consciousness expansion, then we should be able to design better cities, have better economic systems, have better healthcare delivery systems, make better art, make better love, design better spacecraft. It's just mind. It's just creativity driven by connecting up to the real mind that is behind the appearances of nature. It's about getting connected up to the guy in mind, discovering that it is not we who are intelligent. We are the brain cells of an intelligent being, which is the earth. And when we honor that, everything flourishes. And when we fail to honor that, nothing flourishes. Yeah? Speak loud. Speak loud. Well, we have to do it drug by drug. The question was, what do I think of combining MAO inhibitors with ecstasy, 2C-B, and drugs like that? Well, the rule is, if it's an indole, if it's an indole, the MAO inhibitor will activate it, will make it stronger. 2C-B is an indole. MDMA is not. So combining an MAO inhibitor with MDMA would probably not do anything terribly dramatic. Combining it with 2C-B probably would. If you're into this, use a natural MAO inhibitor. Don't use these pharmaceutical MAO inhibitors. They're much too strong. You know, they have MAO inhibitors where you take one pill and it inhibits every molecule of MAO in your body for eight weeks. You don't need that. If you take harmaline, harmaline is an MAO inhibitor that's reversible in four to six hours. And there's lots of interesting work to be done here. A lot of people are using pegamon harmalis seeds, two grams of pegamon harmalis seeds, with other things, LSD, DMA.
 DMT, psilocybin, apogaine, whatever, and getting all kinds of interesting results. A book was just published in the United States called Ayahuasca Analogues, in which the thesis of the book is that there are plants which contain MAO inhibitors and DMT in every ecology, in Europe, in North America, in Australia, and people don't need to import ayahuasca from Brazil or Peru, they just need to locate local sources of these chemicals and then put them together. The easiest local source for an MAO inhibitor, at least in the States, and it's probably true in Europe, is Iranian markets sell something called Hormol. Hormol. It's actually the seeds of pergamum harmoline, designed to be burned as an incense, but it contains a very substantial amount of harmine, and you can use that as your basic MAO inhibitor and then explore these other plant combinations and create your own shamanic toolkit. Are they active in the dry state? It didn't work for me, but some people swear they are. My best luck has been with the fresh leaves. Take about 20 of them, remove the mid-vein with your fingernail to lower the volume. 20 salvia divinorum leaves is a mouthful, and just put it in your mouth, hold it there, squeeze down on it with your jaw, and it's horrible taste, but no worse than bourbon. But a weird taste. And then hold it for 15 minutes, then spit it out, and it'll do you.

The Transformations Of Language Under The Influence Of The Psychedelic Experience (Terence McKenna)

One of the things that is a personal interest of mine, that stands out from the general background of the psychedelic experience, is the way that it throws light on language. And I discovered that audiences seem fairly responsive to this question, even though it seemed to me at first fairly hard to articulate it and fairly hard to say too much about it. So tonight, to indulge myself and anybody else who has a particular interest in this aspect of it, I want to say more about it and maybe talk for 40 minutes or so, and then take questions. And I think it's by talking, it's perhaps a tautology to think that by talking about a linguistic phenomenon or a linguistic problem, you can illuminate it. But I'm interested in how it strikes other people and the kind of dialogue that can be generated by talking about it. First of all, to background what I'm saying a little bit, I recently ran across a very interesting analogy or metaphor that seemed useful to me, which was a historical analogy, saying that when civilizations come into crisis, they inevitably, one of their strategies for survival is to cast back to an earlier period of time, an earlier cultural ideal, and then to try to exemplify its values. And as the obvious example and the most recent phenomenon of this sort on any large scale is the Renaissance, in which the breakdown of medieval society and the rise of mercantilism generated a need to cast back into time for a set of values and then to realize them. And the period of time that was chosen was classical Greece and Rome, and so painting, sculpture, poetry reflected an effort to recapture classical values. What I think is happening in the present and by the present, I mean the whole 20th century, is a similar thing, a similar culture crisis, but on a much grander and more global and more threatening scale, and a casting back for a previous cultural model that can, whose ideals, if we could realize them, would save our own civilization, the same idea that the Renaissance had about classical Greece. But strangely, the period that we have decided, that we have fastened on without ever making a conscious decision, but as a reflection of decisions made in the mass psyche of the species, the period that we have settled on is the archaic period, which precedes human history. And so cubism and the things that were done for literature by Joyce and Pound and the glorification of barbarism and the recovery of the unconscious, first the sexual nature of the unconscious through Freud, later the mass archetypal structure through Jung. In other words, the great movements of the 20th century even Marxism can be seen as efforts to recapture prehistoric sacral values. And this process has been going on for 50 years or so, different adumbrations of it at different times. And now, and for the past 10 years or so, the theme of shamanism, the rediscovery of Paleolithic religion, and the rise of the use of hallucinogenic drugs, which were the driving force of Paleolithic religion, has come into the fore. Well, okay, holding that in your mind for a moment, recall Marshall McLuhan's idea that technologies for conveying information shift ratios in the mass psyche and the way that it relates to the world. And he was famous for predicting what he called electronic feudalism. He said that the television screen was more like a page of manuscript than a page of print, and that as the linearity and uniformity and rational assumptions of grammar were transcended in the conveying of information, to be replaced by electronic gestalts that were looked at rather than read, that the ratios between the senses would shift, and that this would have profound effects on art and the history of ideas and this sort of thing. What is happening is that a kind of super-McLuhanistic phenomenon is happening, where we are collapsing not into the electronic feudalism that he discussed, but into the electronic tribalism which he discussed, and it is shifting our sensory ratios away from the audio and toward the visual. And this brings me now to my subject, which is the transformations of language under the influence of the psychedelic experience. The fact that there is a spectrum of vocal and psychological and psychomental phenomena that range all the way from the recitation of learned material through freely formed speech, and into these trance-like religious phenomena that go under the category glossolalia. And these things are experienced by the people who do them as having a varying relationship to the visual rather than the audio sense. We had a discussion a couple of nights ago with Ralph Abraham about when you are asked to conjure the idea of an orange, what is this idea made out of? When you close your eyes and think of an orange, is what you think of made of language or is it made of light? And what you say in answer to this question, what does it say about you and the way in which you are embedded in your culture? Under the influence of psilocybin particularly, the language-forming centers are activated, and they are activated in tandem with the visual cortex, so that forms of synesthesia are experienced which are linked first of all to sound, so that people singing control the fabric of hallucination through sound. And we found this to be true of ayahuasca in the Amazon, where definitely the shaman's use of voice controls the fabric, the visual fabric of what's going on. But there is yet another level to that phenomenon, which is with the addition of meaning, the control of the visual surface, the topology of meaning, if you will, rather than the ongoing decoding from a dictionary, is transcended. Meaning then is able also to work its adumbrations on this topological surface, and you see into, well, there are different ways of cognizing it, the place where the ursprach is coming from, the assembly language that lies behind all formalized or culturally validated languages. Wittgenstein called it the unspeakable. It's the place where explication cannot go almost by definition, in order to avoid the tautology. Well, now it seemed to me that the nearness of these tryptamine hallucinogens to normal metabolites of brain chemistry, and the fragileness that people like McLuhan and Julian Jaynes have shown to be a part of the way we construct our world.
 In other words, that it's a delicate balance of chemistry and language and history and these sensory ratios. That given all this, it seemed probable to me that this phenomenon encountered in deep psychedelic experiences with psilocybin actually has a potential historical impact. It is a kind of human ability which is at present submerged in the psyche, contactable only by the shamanic means of journeying into historical hyperspace. In other words, of going into that place where the adumbrations of the future are intense enough that you can have an intimation, at least, of what is to come. And I think this is what is to come, and it is a kind of telepathy, but it's not telepathy as we imagined it to be. When I imagined telepathy, I thought of it as hearing another person think and having them hear you think. This is something where the modality of meaning is shifted out of a common dictionary that is a cultural convention and into a shared visual topology which is examined by both parties, both the speaker who caused this thing to be and the audience who shares the space where this is happening. It's interesting that beta-carbolines, which are used to accentuate the hallucinogenic effect of DMT in these ayahuasca preparations in Amazonas, is very definitely a part of normal human metabolism, brain metabolism. And the MAO inhibition that it's performing on DMT that is introduced from the outside is a mirror image of the kind of function that it's performing in the brain. So the shifting of these sensory ratios is causing language to become more visual. At this point, I always have to quote Philo Judeus, who was a first-century Alexandrian Jew who talked about the logos. And I have made analogies between the phenomenon I'm describing and the logos. But in the critical quote, what he said was that a more perfect logos was possible and that it would be a phenomenon which would pass from the modality of being heard to the modality of being beheld without ever crossing through a quantized point of transition where you could say, it was one, now it is the other. And I think the cultural shockwaves that will be generated by the emergence of visible language will totally transform the culture to the point that the point beyond the end of history, the entry into hyperspace, the eschatological monad, all these religious or theological constructs about history are actually intuitions about language undergoing this transformation. Now several things about this transformation. It's obviously not something which the culture is doing as a decision. It isn't like home computers and cable TV. It isn't being brought on as an information utility. It's something which is being imposed from outside. And I think it is, I'm sure most of you are familiar with the Gaia hypothesis of homeostatic regulation of the environment of the earth through the interaction of all life acting as a single organism. Well it obviously regulates trigger species such as we are, are part of this homeostatic method of regulation. And I think the gradual evolution of language is actually the gradual lifting of the veil that is imposed between ourselves and meaning by the planetary ecology. In other words, the forward thrust of history is actually regulated by the ecology. And it is regulated through control of the evolution of language because what you cannot think, you cannot do. And where you cannot imagine, you cannot steer your culture and go. So I'm proposing on one level that hallucinogens be thought of as human macro, almost social pheromones that regulate the rate at which language develops and therefore regulate the evolution of human culture generally. Now one final thought about all this. It seems clear to me, and I've mentioned it in the other lectures, that the evolution, that another aspect of what psychedelics are doing and an aspect of what's happening to the culture generally is its transformation into a space-faring species. And that the momentum for this has been building for millennia. It is not something that was decided in the 1950s. It is in fact what we're all about. I looked at a book recently by Terry Wilson about Brian Gysin called Here to Go. And he asked the question, what are we here for? And he answers himself, we're here to go. And I think there's great truth in that, especially in the current historical moment where it's clear that man as a species and the planet as a unified ecosystem have become antagonistic to each other. And this is not unusual in nature. In fact it's a phenomenon that occurs between a mother and a fetus. When the fetus comes to term, when the birth is imminent, it must happen. Otherwise the survival of both parties is threatened, even though the birth trauma for the mother and the child represents one of the major crises that they will face in their sojourn in existence. Nevertheless, it is inevitable and necessary. And if it comes off correctly, why, it's to the good of everyone. Where psychedelics comes together with that is that it is going to require a transformation of human language and understanding to stop the momentum of the historical process, to halt nuclear proliferation, germ warfare, infantile 19th century politics, all these things. It cannot be accomplished through a frontal assault upon it by political means. And the I Ching says you never confront evil directly, because when it is named, it sharpens its weapons and it learns to defend itself. So what is called for is this sideways attack through hyperspace. God forbid, I think it was Tim Leary who said we should become ecological secret agents. Is that what I'm concluding on? Maybe. Anyway, the transformation of language is, I think, the signal that this archaic, that this nostalgia for the archaic world is coming to a head and that this is its culmination. This is the peculiar thing that we all sense is coming, that we can't quite imagine, that is synthetic yet natural, that is obvious yet hidden. And the interesting thing about it is that it emerges from an inner personal frontier. In other words, you're not going to hear this on the evening news. The president is not going to explain it to you. The secretary general of the UN isn't going to explain it to you. You are only going to advance into understanding this phenomena to the degree that you apply yourself to your being, to attention to being, to reflection on reflection, to attention on attention. And then it will become clear. And because it is a gradient of evolution, it doesn't come with the force of a revelation. It is something which is drawn out. Almost in the same way that we move forward into time, this thing is drawn out. In fact, you could almost say
 that the act of history or the fact of history is a macro phenomenon that arises out of the micro physical fact of millions of people evolving their language. That is what causes the moving wave front of historical becoming. So transformation of language through psychedelic drugs is a central factor of the evolution of the social matrix of the rest of the century. My brother is working on the theory, putting together the argument for the idea that actually human history has always been mediated by man's interaction with hallucinogenic drugs and that this is the pheromonal regulator that links us to the rest of the ecology. And it's simply accidents of botany and alkaloid distribution and historiography that allowed a culture to arise in Europe, which was an area confined geographically and poor in psychedelic plants, so that the mystery was confined to places like elusives and peripheral cults, like the possibly the mushroom berserkers or agaricus, I mean amanita using cults in the Arctic regions. And because of those accidents of botany and geography, a culture was able to get loose from such a tight, the tight constraints that the unconscious imposes. But nevertheless, that culture then was the Promethean culture, the Faustian culture, which claimed the energies, which will then send the mind tribes to the stars. If it had not been for this historical episode, we would essentially be at the Amazonian level of culture, which is suspended in the hallucinogenic dream, but oblivious to the historical forces which are bearing down on that. And tribalism is a social form which can exist at any level of technology. It's a complete illusion to associate it with low levels of technology. It is probably, in fact, a form of social organization, second only to the family and its ability to endure. Are there any questions at this point? Yeah, that last generalization said real broadly you could expand on how tribalism is a social form that can exist at any technological level. Well, I think it's an attitude toward genes and property and information. The institutional, hierarchically structured societies that we associate with our own culture, which I assume we define consciously or unconsciously as somehow the superior culture, is just inherited from a tribal organization, but with a need to abstract the leadership quality so that control could function over wide areas. But electronics actually is, you know, the entire human community is enclosed in a light second of travel. So there is, the globalism is real. I mean, when I first read McLuhan, it seemed to me very true, but a thin voice crying in the wilderness. It was hard to see if out of all the trends working in society, that was how it would come to be. But it certainly seems to be so. I think, well, as HG Wells said, history is a race between education and disaster. And I think, you know, that education was losing that race until electronics came along. And now, I would probably be optimistic. I think that there is a global commonality of understanding coming into being, and it is not necessarily fostered by institutions. For instance, the invention of the microchip, which makes possible the personal computer. It was actually thought to be a mistake. It was not fast enough for the Defense Department purposes that it was engineered, that the research project that produced it was aiming for. And they produced instead this weird thing, which they couldn't imagine what to do with, because it was too slow for any military or industrial application. But someone realized, you know, that it was just fine for human beings, and that it would shift the pieces around on the board in the world, or between freedom and oligarchy and human individuality, and all these forces which seek to oppress it. So I don't believe that the historical process is under the control of any of the many, many institutions that would wish to control it. The break between nature and man has been overstressed, I think, and that we should realize, you know, that we are very strange, but you can find very odd adaptations at many levels. And when you look at the global ecology, you see that there must be a species like us, or otherwise it would mean that evolution gives up at the planetary level, that somehow when it encounters the edge of the atmosphere, it just says, okay, well, that's it. If the star goes, we all go, and there's no way around that. But actually, the obvious way around that is a technical species, a minded species that will open a hole using energy and understanding, through which everything could escape if it had to. Because, you know, as we, as the data flows back from these probes moving out through the solar system and beyond, it turns out that the 19th century intuition of catastrophism was very correct, that the universe is in fact a very turbulent place, and that you only have to open your time window a little bit, like a hundred thousand years, for the probability of very turbulent events that a global ecosystem would react to, and strategies have to be evolved. I mean, Francis Crick has come out with his belief, the panspermia idea, that life actually evolves in a deep space environment, and is conveyed then to planetary environments where it can adapt and evolve evolutionary strategies by cometary material. At one point, we suggested that Stropharycubensis, the psilocybin mushroom, was actually an intelligent species whose method, whose strategy of evolutionary advance was the spore, which could actually go into a kind of suspended animation for hundreds of thousands, millions of years, and by that means radiate through the galaxy over very long periods of time. And that seemed like a very radical idea at the time. We hypothesized that spore liberation by an agaricus on a planetary surface, then through Brownian motion and accumulation of global charge on the surface of the spore, that there would be a small number of these tending to percolate out of any given atmosphere. And given the enormous amounts of spores that are released, you could make an argument for this kind of evolutionary strategy. But Crick, who discovered DNA, makes a much wilder hypothesis, which is that you don't even require a planetary ecosystem for DNA and life chemistry to evolve, that it can evolve in ultra-cold regimens in interstellar space, and then be conveyed to various planetary chemical regimens where it can respond and grow. And all of these things, life, which we know from the rock that is dug out of the South African chert, you can date back to at least 3.5 billion years, that's longer than the life of 40% of the stars in the universe. So life is not an ephemeral process in an entropic universe. Life is a process that has a duration that exceeds that of star life. And life strategy for running against the second law of thermodynamics and expanding and conserving ordered structure over vast periods...
 of time is a strategy of encoding information and retaining it. In other words, languages. And these languages, which are abstract systems of notation that can be laid onto nucleotides or coconuts or scratches on clay or whatever, allow the conserving of complexity. And the cross into visible language that I see as the culmination of human historical culture is a similar advance into this information self-expression of the magnitude similar to the generation of epigenetic information. In other words, the first writing, the first notation, that represented a break with genetic information that allowed then culture and memory and self-reflection. Visible language will allow a similar forward thrust deeper into human becoming, but it is also part of the phenomenon of leaving the planet and being anticipated now in these psychedelic drug states. Because as we continue to insist on exploring the archaic through drugs and music and archaeology and the whole thrust of twentieth century self-explication, I think we're going to find that this was the basis of the Ur-Shamanism. This is what magic is. It's being able to speak in a voice which makes things happen. Being able to speak in a voice which causes facts to be beheld by groups of people in a way that has been purged from profane language for us relegated to poetry and that sort of thing. Does visual or beheld language have any basic structural units to it like an alphabet? Or would it be something so abstract that you couldn't... Well, you know, people had to look at language probably 15,000 years before Noam Chomsky was able to write down the 15 rules of transformational grammar. It may have, there may be some a pixel or an alphabet or a reducible unit to it. It doesn't seem like that. It seems like, well, no, no, maybe topology that we could imagine that Ren Thom's catastrophes of which there are seven good in three dimensions. But as you add dimensions to any system, the number of these potential catastrophes increases. And Ralph Abraham has described a number of the hyperdimensional catastrophe states. Perhaps they could eventually, it could eventually be recognized as a grammar of catastrophe flow where it changes first into one thing, then into another. What you're asking basically is what is the meaning of meaning? Or put another way, does language eventually become somehow a mirror of mathematics? And I don't know, it would take a lot more analysis than I have done. I think describing this stuff is at the level of sailing up jungle rivers and sticking to the broad rivers and noting that at three in the afternoon you passed a river mouth flowing in. It was a mile and a half wide and you don't know where it was coming from or how many thousand square miles it was draining. And you just put a note on your map to return someday and ascend it. In other words, there's this archaic area of the mind. It's going to take a long time to explicate it. By the time we have assimilated our re-contact with the archaic, there will be colonies on Alpha Centauri. There will be thinking machines. There will be trans-dimensional vehicles and out-of-body consciousness via electronics. All these things will arise out of our grappling with an understanding of this shift in the sensory ratios that will essentially return modern man to the age of miracles. Though we won't put it that way, but we will privately experience it that way. I mean, that's what psychedelic drugs are. We don't put it that way, but we all who have been through it privately experience it as a miracle. ...information that is coming into your brain or whatever. Many people talk about this. I'm just wondering if you'd share your thoughts on that, the vision or any hypotheses, what you feel that's accurate, not accurate. Well, it seems as though there is a tuning mechanism that you must somehow, by trial and error, find how to twiddle this knob. And you move through these very concentrated areas of information. And some of it can be blindingly personal. Some of it appear to be movies of historical periods. Some of it appear to be conformed to Jungian stuff. And then the alien part of it. And I don't know. I mean, this is the area I work in. I've held all kinds of opinions about this information and finally decided that it's too early to say what it is. There's a school of New Age, or I don't know exactly how to put it, but the Seth books and the Ilse Schwaller de Lubitz and these people, where it's just nobody asks any hard questions. It's just, oh, you're channeling a being from Arturus and they're laying the law down. Fascinating. What are they saying? Well, that's interesting what they're saying. But more interesting is trying to actually work up close to the mechanics involved in this channeling. And I'm very skeptical, and yet it hasn't stopped me at all from doing it. I mean, I talk to them, but I don't give away the barn or the cow. I just try to engage in dialogue. And some traditions are very blas about this sort of thing. Buddhism, for instance, Vajrayana, it's just, oh yes, many worlds, many beings, beings, beings, all kinds of beings on every level, and you have to learn to deal with them. But that's well and good until you actually are dealing with these beings and go through like that wonderful moment in Rosemary's Baby where she says, my God, this is really happening. Well, there are those moments where you realize that this doesn't appear to be a hypostatization of discriminating intellect. It appears to be some kind of eight-armed shmiggy which is coming at you with all these implements. And I don't know. See, I think it's going to take a long time to sort this all out. And that in order to learn what we had to learn about matter to leave the planet, we had to really put ourselves through a head trip and close down the imagination or deputize special people to be imaginative who we called poets and then labeled irrelevant. It's going to now come upon us and science is flowing into this area and beginning to recognize that it must have a romantic component. This is just the way of things. Ideas beget their opposites and then are subsumed by them. Anyone? Could all this be related to the crisis in art? Well, I don't know whether you mean the crisis since 1905 or 1975 or which. Well, it's not exactly a crisis. The goal of art is to be incomprehensible or a portion of it has to be incomprehensible. I think that, you know, these paintings at Lascaux and Altamira which are now dated at 19,000 years old, when the first ones were discovered in the 1890s, they were thought to be 400 to 500 years old. And as it dawned on people what this was, and this was like 1905 to 1925, it just, the abyss of time and history that opened up for people who were sensitive to it, the realization that, you know, my God, people have been feeling what I've been feeling, thinking what I've been feeling for at least 20,000 years. And this impacted on Picasso, it impacted on Mir, it impacted on Klee, it impacted on Marcel Duchamp, all of these people. And much of the
 of the bad boy antics of modern art is actually, it's when you bring a primitive home to dinner. You know, when the 19th century academy brings home a savage from the South Sea island, Jari with the cast of his penis, Marcel Duchamp insisting on wearing a toilet thing around his neck at certain formal occasions, if they were, and for instance in the punk, the current punk phenomenon of body painting, you know, they would be perfectly at home in the mountains of New Guinea. People love to paint themselves. This was very big before the last ice age. And, you know, if you believe heavy metal sets fashion, it looks like it's going to be very big in the next century. But a more serious answer to your question is, I think that the crisis is not, it depends, it's a crisis, it's an opportunity. What it is, is that art is becoming eschatological. From Duccio on, from the close of the medieval period on, art was conceived of a series of self-transcending styles moving toward various goals, which usually derive from the philosophy of the time, beginning, you know, so that realism or mannerism, these various tendencies would be pursued. What's happened in the 20th century with the legitimizing of experience and the legitimizing of experiment and the destruction of the patronage system in the academy is that everything happens. There are people painting in New York today in the style of Jan van Eyck and making a living at it. And there are also people doing all kinds of things, but it's very, very hard to pick out a new piece of art if by, I don't think, well, the art of the last 20 years has been art outside of time, since the middle 60s, since William Wiley and Funk and all that stuff began. And it's impossible to date art objects. They can have been made any time in the last 20 years. This is what eschatological time will be like, a transcendence of style and people simply working in these various modes of self-expression, which compete in a great atemporal carnival, wherein unfortunately the values of the marketplace play too great a role, but no other way of mediating it has been found. Part of what's happened to art is that it's been transformed into an enormous industry that must produce objects to decorate the apartments of the affluent on all continents who want to, you know, have art and be involved in art. But they are not, they don't have enough power to dictate style. They'll take whatever is put before them, which is very liberating for artists. Anybody else have anything on their mind? Information structures, but you could also think of personality structure, that with which the witness consciousness identifies with as an information structure, too. Where do you draw the line between language that is beheld as something other and language that is, or that, those information structures which are part of the identity of the experience? Well, you're asking what is the difference between self and other? Yeah. In terms of language. What you're asking is how do you know you're not talking to yourself? Yeah. Aha. Well, that's a very tricky question. I'm surprised that in 3,000 years of philosophizing, somebody hasn't figured out a nifty way to always tell this. It would make a marvelous short story, some little litmus test that you could perform. Pretty much you have to go on intuition. Of course, what you always say is, I can't possibly know what I'm being told, therefore it isn't myself. But that's a very naive view of the psyche. On the other hand, when that reaches excruciating proportions, there's a tendency to abandon sophistication and just believe in it anyway. But this thing about the shifting boundary between self and other is very tricky. When I first smoked DMT, for instance, I saw an absolute break between self and alien. I was myself and they were the aliens. But then, over years of working with it and seeing how it comes on with psilocybin, where instead of forming up over 40 seconds or so, it comes together over half an hour or 40 minutes. You have to breathe and you have to ease it in. Then you see how it is a kind of thing which emerges out of myself. It's like I pull a psychic plug and the opaque ink drains away and there is this marvelous coral-like organism, which I didn't think was a part of me, but perhaps all through life and death we keep discovering new organs capable of amazing things that we didn't know we had. But I don't know. I mean, I don't think you can ask a single person to know. I think this is the question that shamanism deals with and it's a mystery. Not only is the other the self, but is the other God? Is the other the species mind of the planet? Is the other a genus loci, a kind of God, but a local force of some sort? These are wonderful questions to entertain when they have immediacy. This is what people did before history. Contemplation was their job and they worked at it very hard, but I'm not sure there are ever answers. More and more recently, and I've always known this on some level, I think about when I was about 16 or so I realized it and briefly pursued it and never returned to it, but I think that Taoism, if I had to pick an ontological vision that was compatible with what I think these drugs are about and with what I think is trying to happen, I would pick Taoism for the following reasons. It's the only mystical tradition I know of, possibly with the exception of shamanism, but shamanism doesn't really reflect on this. It's the only mystical tradition I know of that is not anti-scientific. It has no hostility to science. It is highly experimental. It's about compounding drugs with fungi and minerals and doing strange things on the side of fog-swept mountains and looking into your head and looking into your head and looking into your head and trying to refine description. It is open-ended and it is ethno-ecologically sensitive. It is sensitive to theit is not at all antagonistic to drugs. In fact, on the subject of drugs, it's extremely straightforward and practical. Its stated goal is to compound the nine-fold elixir of immortality, and then how you do this, various methods came and went through the ages. But it's stress on technique, it's stress on analysis, it's stress on contemplation without method. In fact, it's general antagonism toward method. All these things endear it to me a lot, and I think it's very compatible with the shamanic stance. In fact, you know, we cannotwe are modern people, and even if you think of yourself as a practicing shamanI don't think of myself that way, I think of myself as a shamanologistbut even if you think of yourself as a practicing shaman, you have to weld it to later traditions that answer more sophisticated questions that were posed later in historical time, and Taoism would be an excellent vehicle for that, I think. Yes? Yes, in Hindu mythology, there's reference to the state being dissolved into the absolute, or being one without a second, not defined by anything. That's a strong reference. Is that in any way coincident with what you're talking about? Yeah, I think it is. To think of Plotinus, one of his definitions of the mystical experience was he called it the flight of the alone to the alone, which mathematically adds up to the one without a second.
 As far as this end of history that seems to be appointed for history by Western religion, yes, it is like the dissolution of the cosmos that goes on in Hindu cosmology. Hindu cosmology is a set of nested cycles, similar in structure to the set of nested cycles that I proposed for time in the invisible landscape. And I think we're running into one of those compression points that everything that has been going on on this planet for the last billion years has been a series of telescoping processes of ever-accelerating intensity, connectivity, and momentum leading finally to the generation of consciousness, a moment after that, historical civilization, a moment after that, modern science, and a moment after that, star flight. And it is just a 10,000-year rush from monkeyhood to star flight, a geological moment, but historically a grand opera that has everybody on the edge of their seat because if the ball is fumbled, that's all she wrote. And there's nothing that says that we must succeed, or at least we cannot assume that there's something which says that we must succeed, even if we are the chosen target species of Gaia. Gaia may not have all fingers on the button. We don't know where our own power ends and begins and where the power of the other begins and ends. And so we have to make our way carefully into these dimensions. Shamanism is thousands of years of accumulated information on how to navigate in these spaces. If we are becoming a shamanic society through the metaphor of space flight, we are going to have to recover this information, and there will be some chills and spills along the way, I'm sure. Yeah. Terence, I had a question. In the traditional use of substances that you've described, this ritual around it, there's also intention generated in shaman around healing and focus around hunting, real earthly kind of pursuits around survival. And that seems to ground the experience in many ways or provide a focus for it. When we do it by ourselves, sans ritual, sans this kind of language, sans this kind of training, we're prey to the whole deceptions of the mind. And so my question to you is, what sort of critical inquiry do you personally use? What kind of critical language do you personally use with these forms in front of you? How do you know to guard against self-deception? Do you use the word critical analysis? What does that mean when you translate practically? Well, it isn't so much in confrontation with the being that you have to have this critical analysis. In confrontation with the being, you act from the heart and in the moment, but it's later. It's what do we think about these things as we sit here now relatively unstoned. Your question raises all kinds of issues. I said I didn't think anyone was a shaman or that I thought of myself as a shamanologist. This is because a shaman is educated by other shamans, inculcated, chosen out, educated, and brought along. In our society, we have to do it all by ourselves. I've made the comparison to a man walking along the beach and coming upon a fully rigged sailboat. Comparing the sailboat to the psychedelic drug, how likely is it that this man can learn to sail without killing himself, where it is no great matter to learn to sail if you learn from a sailor. So this is the first barrier that's posed for us or was posed, I think, in the 60s when there were a lot of casualties to psychedelics because it was assumed that everyone should do it. So millions of people did. Actually, there are few societies where everyone does it. Those where that is the case, or where, for instance, all men do it, are not probably the most advanced shamanisms on the planet. So it's a kind of a profession. It's almost like clergy. It's to be deputized by the society as an ecstatic for the purpose of introducing back into society the material that comes from the mystical voyage for purposes of cultural renewal, the chief thing which grounds the shaman, at least in my practical experience with them, is the curing. And Merciliade insists on this, that the primary function of the shaman is to cure and that all these other things go toward that. We all have to cure ourselves in a sense, in the sense that is contained in the notion that a psychedelic drug is a deconditioning agent. Now, I don't think a psychedelic drug is particularly a deconditioning agent if you're Witoto or Bora or Muinani or something like that and you take it, you don't then denounce being that and leave for Lima. But in our culture, psychedelics have had this effect of triggering a very fundamental questioning of values and intensifying alienation and creating alienated subclasses. This is a symptom of the general unhealthiness of the society, that you can't be psychedelic and be 100% of this society, that certain things seem to impose themselves in your way. So I don't think that there is any easy answer to your question. What we have over shaman is our wonderful electronic information retrieval systems. And the way that works is like this. You go to the Amazon and you're dealing with a tribe and they say, you know, we need this certain drug plant and the secret word for it is so-and-so and we'll go and get it. And they do, and they know more about that drug plant than you do by a long crack. But you ask them, did they know that the people 20 miles further up the river use a different plant called something else? And you know this because you read it in a Harvard Museum botanical leaflet which tells you that, and they are astonished. You have this weird overview which they cannot conceive of. They are fully informed in a vertical fashion about one tradition, but you, by writing to Boston, Massachusetts and getting these leaflets and reading them, are more prepared to discuss the generalities of Amazon shamanism than most of the people you meet. And this is a great resource not to be sneered at. There's a lot of information. Like, for instance, when you read Marcia Lian's Shamanism, the Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy, this is a global overview. And you, I'm not saying you know more than any one single shaman knows about shamanic ecstasy, but you have a certain kind of knowledge which prepares you, a generalized cosmology which prepares you. And these are the best maps that we have, so we have to make use of them. Could you comment on how that issue relates to the more general one that seems to contain it of the turning towards the archaic, the attempt to recapture or reintegrate the unconscious forces after a period of deliberately not being able to do so as a society, and how that's going to affect both individual and social change over the next visible historical horizon? Well, obviously just on the surface of it, Freud in Civilization and its Discontents made the point that sexuality is necessarily repressed for civilization to be possible. Sexuality is being redefined in this modern world.
 context, in an archaic context, so that it becomes more generalized. The Romantic ideal gives place to a kind of tribal ideal. This is obviously happening and related to psychedelics and this effort to recapture the archaic. That's probably the major impact that it will have because our hang-ups are all hung around the issues that sexuality posed for civilization and the various solutions that were found in various times, all of which were, or none of which, were ever viable. This is what makes us feel uncomfortable about ourselves, is there's never been a set of social rules that worked so well that most people weren't involved in trying to subvert them. What does that say about us and the 10,000 year endeavor we've been involved in? But I see that giving way to a more natural order. In other words, many constraints have been placed upon us. We have accepted many constraints. We've accepted a kind of wounding. The myth of the fall is a statement about our feelings, about ourselves, that we had to go into history to recover something which had been lost, that had been ours in the beginning, but that we fumbled away. And then we had to descend into history and recover it. And it is this Edenic innocence and the adumbrations that it will create at all levels of society. Singing is a ritual act that automatically sets up its own rules and can be initiated at any time without hardly moving a muscle. We were saying during the break up here that it's possible to imagine a form of psychoanalysis where what you would do is simply urge people and go through with them as learning as much about history as possible, so that there were no blank spots, so that their amnesia about their historical position was recovered as a way of treating neurosis, a way of actually by locating people on the grid, by forcing them to find out who they really are in terms of all the other somebodies who have been around and all the some places that preceded them. And I think that you can almost see that that is a recovery of the unconscious, that the history of man that you don't know is what your unconscious is made out of, just as the history of yourself that you don't know is what your personal unconscious is made out of. However, much of the history of man that you don't know can probably be found by going and reading a book on the subject, and this has a tremendous centering, a spiritual efficacy that all out of proportion to the act of studying history, which seems rather removed from everyday concerns. Anything else? Yeah, what about a development of a language of consciousness which we don't have, like Sanskrit's theoretically, or Maslow was playing around with words that would scientists, would you comment on that? Well, I think the I Ching is an effort, the most advanced effort to do something like that, but it's a language of gestalt, and you know, I don't speak Japanese, but it's said of Japanese that nothing which is obvious is ever mentioned. Language is reserved for clarifying the unclear, so people are not saying it's a hot day, isn't it, and that kind of stuff. They're reserving language. The other possibility is that the visual language is this, and that as more and more of it is experienced and done, it will be realized. The visual language, I'm not sure I stressed this this evening, but it is perhaps non-translatable into English because it is a language of emotion, where emotion is seen to be as subtle a spectrum of integrated gradients of meaning as, or integrated gradients of combination, as meaning has. So that there isn't, you know, love, hate, disgust, and something else, but in fact an infinitude of emotional states that can be triggered by vocal sound, and in a way of course I'm simply describing singing, wordless singing, except that I'm describing how that can rise to an ontologically different level and become so emotive that you understand very subtle differentiations of emotion. I noticed when we were in the Amazon taking ayahuasca with these people, and they would sing these thousand-year-old songs, and you would eventually, you would get to the place where you had the absolute conviction that you understood, because you could stand off from your mind and say, the speed at which I'm going through emotional changes over what I'm hearing must mean that I understand what I'm hearing, because if I didn't understand it, I would just have a certain generalized emotion about it. But it is changing my interior state so rapidly that it is like the experience of understanding. That's the only thing it can be compared to. Yeah? Could you elaborate more on the effect of the ayahuasca, and with the combination with superior defenses that you mentioned in Invisible Landscapes, the effect of altering the DNA, and when you mentioned the histone blocks? Yes, well the core chemical idea in the Invisible Landscape, for those of you who haven't read it, is that it is possible, or it was hypothesized that it was possible, to use sound to cause hallucinogenic drug molecules that were present in the nucleus of neurons, having arrived there through axioplasmic transport from the synapse, to cause them to occupy bond sites in DNA, the bond sites specifically which lie between the nucleotides, and the molecular dimensions and everything are correct for this to be possible. In fact, it's been shown in vitro that certain hallucinogens do preferentially bond into DNA, and very elegant experiments in which DNA was exposed to hallucinogenic drug molecules, and then centrifuged, and shown that its specific gravity had increased by precisely the molecular weight of the drug molecule, and no other compounds were present. So there is an affinity for bonding with the DNA on the part of these drug molecules. We hypothesize that the general psychedelic experience, the common psychedelic experience, is simply these things displacing normal neurotransmitters such as serotonin at the synapse, undergoing axioplasmic transport to the nucleus, intercalating, which is the technical term for this kind of bonding, intercalating into the nuclear material there, and shifting the electron spin resonance of the generalized electron spin resonance signature of the molecule, so that millions of cells, having this happen to them, are amplified into a higher cortical experience, which is the hallucinogenic experience. But, in answer to your question, my brother went beyond this and hypothesized that you could intervene in this process, which would normally you would expect to be quenched in four to six hours, whatever the duration of the psychedelic drug was, that it would be possible to intervene in this process with vocally generated sound, generated in such a way that of these millions of molecules in these bond states, a very few of them would be oriented in space toward the incoming wavefront of sound in such a way that they would be cancelled, that they would undergo the kind of harmonic cancelling that happens when you sound a note on the cello and then quench the string you've sounded, you hear the overtones in octaves above and below it, and he felt that this could be done with the human voice.
 and performed an experiment to test this idea, which seemed to indicate that it was possible, or at least that some bizarre drug synergy was prolonged and triggered by vocal sound. And we have never proceeded into this any further. It would be easy to do so. You would get square wave generators and oscillating systems, and you would try to tune in to this sound because it's a very specific sound. Now, it sounds at first preposterous that quantum acoustically mediated, quantum mechanical chemical changes could be controlled by the voice. But you have to remember, populations of millions of molecules are involved, only a very few of which have to fulfill the complete set of special conditions that would allow this situation to arise. And also, it isn't generally realized at what level the human perceptual apparatus operates in relationship to quantum mechanical events. For instance, a single photon can be registered by the human eye. I'm sure some of you who had chemistry sets when you were children, they threw in a little thing called a spinthoroscope, which was nothing more than a closed tube with a little lens in the end, and at the other end a speck of radium on the end of a pin, and then a phosphorous screen behind it. You would sit in a dark room for 10 minutes and then look into the spinthoroscope, and you would see flashes of light coming out of the phosphorous screen at the end of it. Those flashes of light were single photons being released from the phosphorous matrix by the impact of decaying hard radiation from the radium. In a similar vein, a single molecule bumping against the tympanic membrane of the human ear can be distinguished, and we've done this in very elegant experimental situations. So actually the human sensory apparatus, for what a continuous picture of the world it gives us, is under experimental conditions shown to be rather closer to portraying the quantum mechanical nature of reality than we might expect. So I don't think it's on the face of it preposterous that there could be technologies of vocal sound and control of physiological states of oneself and other people through the controlled use of sound. After all, if you are of the brain theory of consciousness and believe that every thought that we think is accompanied by chemical changes, the breaking and forming of chemical bonds, it means that as I speak to you, my voice, if you understand me, or maybe if you even don't understand me, is going through a continuing process of generating and breaking down hundreds of compounds as your brain takes on a configuration somewhat analogous to the configuration of my brain at the moment of speaking. This is what communication must be seen to be by people who have a hard brain theory of consciousness. What if you don't know anything about any of this? Well, then you're probably in better shape than all of us. You should go to the side of Cold Mountain and compound mushrooms and draw cold water from a well and to thank lucky stars that that's the situation you find yourself in. In other words, knowledge or verbal facility is no proof of knowing what you're talking about. It's just verbal facility. Now, I think the Taoist thing, I'm coming more and more to it to see that it's open-endedness, it's insistence on humor, it's not grinding a bunch of dogmatic knives. And now I'm talking about the cultural ideal of Taoism. Taoism became secularized and played power politics at various times in the history of China, just like the other Chinese religions. But its ideal remained the psychedelic ideal, I think. And it's basically a dropped-out ideal. It isn't that you should return to the court and take up the counsel of the king and try to save his ass. It's that someone else can take care of that. But these Taoist immortals became strange people. They were fleetingly glimpsed from the road, running naked in the woods as people passed to and fro. Knowledge, I have said this before, made the analogy between understanding and gravity, that as something becomes gravitationally more and more dense, it eventually is so dense that light can't leave it. No information can leave it. It's said to be a black hole. It has curved space around itself and no information can leave it. I think as you advance on the path toward enlightenment, it becomes harder and harder for people to understand you. And when you finally achieve enlightenment, you can't say anything at all. And anything you say must be misunderstood. That's the proof that you're enlightened. If you're a perfect black hole, you must be incomprehensible. No information must leave you. So if you understood anything I said tonight, it's a perfect proof that I'm far from enlightened. But thank you for coming anyway. Maybe on that note we should knock off. Is anyone burning? Good, then let's knock off.

The World Could Be Anything (July, 1990) ~ Terence McKenna

We closed last night, or we discussed yesterday, a bumper sticker that I saw driving down here. And the bumper sticker said, uh, Man Thinks, God Knows. And then someone had bought a second copy of the bumper sticker and cut it apart and reversed it and put it under it. So it said, Man Thinks, God Knows, God Knows, Man Thinks. Now it seemed to me there was a lot going on in what was attempting to be expressed here. First of all, something about God, that God knows, that God exists in a superior state of intellection. Plato said time is the moving image of eternity. My notion of God's cognition is simply the regarding of all points in the space-time continuum with equal clarity. God knows. The limited program of knowing is thought, cognition. Man thinks. This is what man can do in imitation of the all-knowing and omniscient example of God. But implicit is that this is somehow a limited undertaking, this thinking of man. And some of you may recall the famous comment of Pascal that man is a reed bent by the wind. And then Pascal added, but a thinking reed. So then the second half of the conundrum was that God knows, man thinks. Now this, I thought, was very interesting because it seems to imply a relationship between the limited project of knowing, which is human thought, and the completed project of knowing, which is omniscience. God knows, man thinks. In a way, what this is saying is that God knows that man is making his way toward God. God knows, man thinks. God knows that man is participating in the same project of being that God regards from this higher dimensional space. And so then this meditation on these four lines closes with the recurso, which returns you then to this realization that what we are talking about is the project of knowing, Heidegger called it, carried out on two levels, on the level of omniscience and on the level of limited being. So then I meditated on this after we discussed it yesterday, and I thought tonight it might be interesting then to talk about the thinking project that is the essence of humanness on one level. The thinking project which has as its vector, I call it concrescence following Whitehead's Neoplatonism. One could call it God, Teilhard de Chardin called it the Omega Point, but the process by which knowing transforms itself from some kind of aboriginal apperception of the possibility of God into union with God, and the process that lies between these two points is the story of the evolution of human consciousness, or more properly speaking, human history. And the interesting thing I think about the western religions generally is their insistence on the tangentiality of God and history, that God was something to be realized in the life of each individual, but that there was also somehow a collective drama of redemption that was stretched out over a very large period of time, and history then becomes the theater, you see, of the struggle between good and evil for the redemption of the human soul. And from the modern point of view, or let's be more frank, from my point of view, this is primarily something to be analyzed within the context of language and our myths about it and its evolution and its potential future evolution. So I... And this is in my personal life the great mystery to me, because I feel that my intellectual style is that of a scientist, and I take very seriously science, and yet not only my faith but my experience has led me to believe that the world is not a construction of space and time and matter and energy, that that mapping is insufficient, that the world is instead some kind of a linguistic construct. It is more in the nature of a sentence or a novel or a work of art than it is in the nature of these machine models of interlocking law that we inherit out of a thousand years of rational reductionism. The world only behaves as science says it should when we confine our engagement with it to information that is at a great distance from us, like reading the New York Times every day. If you read the New York Times every day, few miracles will occur while you are engaged in that activity. Essentially what is happening is you are getting your cultural programming for the day, all your switches, if any need be, need to be reset by cultural values, are reset at that point. But when we recede into what I call the primacy of immediate experience, the rules and models that we've been handed by science and what's called common sense are just totally found to be inadequate. And I don't mean when we perturb ordinary consciousness with psychedelic drugs, I'll speak about that in a moment, but I simply mean when we go into solitude, when we go into wilderness, when we endure great travail in our lives or when we put ourselves in extraordinary alien circumstances, then it's as though the membrane between the ego and something else, which we could call our guardian angel or the Jungian unconscious or the overmind, something like that, the membrane grows thin and the world loses its mundane character and instead things previously mundane begin to become charged with psychic energy. They become carriers of meaning. This is very peculiar. At a low level it's not so astonishing. It's a kind of generalized opening to the world because everything is imbued with significance. That tree, that person, that greeting, that conversation is imbued with a kind of depth and significance that is satisfying. It's like living deeply, living deeply. But this phenomenon can proceed to a deeper level of introspection and relationship to the exterior. And in that case then, this significance, which everything was previously seen to have, begins to concrese or densify and the world begins to dissolve into animate intelligence.
 If you didn't bargain for this, you're probably very concerned about your mental condition. And if you aren't, your friends are. Because what you're saying at this point is, the rivers talk to me, the trees whisper in my ear. What you're recovering is the meaning. That's all. The meaning that is self-evident in nature, but that we block. The meaning is so pregnant in everything, that it can actually articulate itself in your native English tongue. And, you know, talking rocks, talking trees, talking boulders. We define this as pathology. It means, in technical jargon, a severely diminished ego is in danger of overwhelmment by material from the inchoate and disorganized unconscious. But what's actually happening is that, for the first time in somebody's life or experience, they are meeting the resident meaning in reality with its force unblunted by conditioning and denial. And this is some kind of a linguistic process. We, and all nature, I think, swims in some kind of sea of signification of which we are, in the same way that the amphibians were able to drag themselves out of the primitive oceans of this planet into air and exist in a completely different dimension. We, whether grandly or perversely, the verdict is not yet in, we dragged ourselves out of the sea of telepathic interconnected signification that united all life, and we exist, panting and pop-eyed, in this other dimension called history, ego awareness, presence of self, sense of loss, anticipation of gain. All of these dimensions of experience really have been added to what was previously the animal Tao, just the howling at the moon Tao of animal existence. And to this we have added a dimension of future anticipation, a dimension of regret, a dimension of how do I make choices, and so forth and so on. I don't put a moral judgment on this, but it has to be said that in the tradition of the West, this has been viewed classically as the fall, this is the fall, into names instead of realities, into constructs of reality rather than reality itself. And this has now been inculcated into each and every one of us as both the glory and the trauma of human existence, which is our extraordinary ability to reside in and be in language. So, for instance, I've made this example before, a child lying in a crib and a hummingbird comes into the room and the child is ecstatic because this shimmering iridescence of movement and sound and attention, it's just wonderful. I mean, it is an instantaneous miracle when placed against the background of the dull wallpaper of the nursery and so forth. But then mother or nanny or someone comes in and says, it's a bird, baby, bird, bird. And this takes this linguistic piece of mosaic tile and places it over the miracle and glues it down with the epoxy of syntactical momentum. And from now on, the miracle is confined within the meaning of the word. And by the time a child is four or five or six, no light shines through. They have tiled over every aspect of reality with a linguistic association that blunts it, limits it, and confines it within cultural expectation. But this doesn't mean that this world of signification is not outside, still existent, beyond the horizons, the foreshortened horizons of a culturally validated language. Well, so then classically the path through this has been through use of psychedelic plants or some form of ascetic practice or fasting or prayer and meditation, whatever, some way of breaking through. And it is literally presented as a breaking through, a penetration to another level, that culture is an imprisoning bubble of interlocking assumptions that are like a collective hallucination. I mean, I hate to say it because it's a recursive metaphor, but culture is like a delusion of some sort. Because it isn't true, of course. It isn't true if you're a Witoto. It isn't true that you came from the piss of the anaconda god when he had to get out of his canoe at the first waterfall. That's not really true, but that's your cultural myth and you live inside it. Our cultural myths, that the world is made of things called mumesons and antiprotons, is of course not true either. But it's a linguistic construct that we culturally validate and live inside. And these cultural myths give permission for certain things. Basically, they give permission to ignore certain kinds of realities. So our language is uniquely set up to ignore, for example, the suppression of femininity. It's also uniquely set up to suppress the statistically infrequent. We really have no patience with that. We have an assembly-mind mentality. What we're interested in is that things run smoothly. One can imagine a completely different mentality that cared nothing for statistical norms and only pursued the miraculous. India, in a way, is that society. They don't give a hoot for how it works on the hum-drum level, but the alien, the peculiar, the other, the unexpected is revered, adored even. So these kinds of cultural values shift. But now, now, we are in a global culture with the combined understandings of 500, 600, 700 language groups and half that many literatures being poured into a global database where some people are assimilating enough of this to begin to play their part in the creation of a kind of global meta-program for language. And I think it's interesting to talk about the form that this may take because I see this as our... this is not our salvation, but this is the angel of our salvation. If we can transform and remake language, then we can have the conversation that we must have in order to save ourselves. But we cannot save ourselves until we have a language adequate to the problem that we're facing. And English just won't do it because English is a language of subject-object opposition. It's a language of a past, present and future. And the kind of world we're living in is not that kind of world. Now, toiling in the background, misunderstood and unnoticed for centuries have been mathematicians laboring to create what they call meta-languages of description that seem to them very satisfying, to the rest of us very bewildering. And a question worth asking is why is it that this language, mathematics, which we have so much trouble understanding, seems so tremendously powerful?
 when it comes to the description of nature. This is not a trivial question. Why should numbers, in a sense the most abstract quintessence of the human mind, have anything whatsoever to say about the topology of three-dimensional space and time? It isn't clear. What I believe is happening, and we talked about this last night, generally in the form of a conservation of novelty throughout the history of the universe. But I tended last night to present the universe as a material thing. I spoke of atoms concressing into molecules, into organic creatures, into thinking beings with civilizations, and so forth. But another way to think of this is to take a spiritual x-ray of the material universe and then say, if matter is merely the vehicle of the transformations that we call the life of the universe, then what is the inner dynamic composed of? What is it that is striving? What is it that bootstraps itself forward? What is it that self-reflects? I think what it is, is it's actually information. Information is some kind of ontological modality that is capable of organizing any system in which it inhabits into self-reflection. So you pour information into matter and you get back DNA capable of making life. But there is a persistent spiritual tradition backed up by psychedelic and shamanic experience that says that there are also hierarchies of incorporeal and disincarnate intelligence that is nevertheless highly organized. Well, until the advent of the computer, I think we were just pretty much at a loss to form any conception whatsoever of how you could have consciousness without a body. But the computer shows us that you can have large-scale systems which have degrees, and then there's a long philosophical wrangle which we can just stamp as for another time, degrees of sentience in operating systems. So then it seems to mean that information is the thing which uses matter, uses light, uses spirit, uses whatever it can put its hands on to organize itself into higher and higher levels of self-reflection. Well, then to what end? I mean, what is all this? Is it just an innate drive toward totality? Or is it a process which exists completed in some higher dimensional space, and we are somehow trapped in a lower dimensional matrix and we have to endure the illusion that it is incomplete? I mean, I don't have answers for these things. This is the business of theologians, basically, to tell us where we are in this universal machine. I think that what we can do to enrich our experience and to feed data into our heuristic models is to begin to think in terms of language as the material that we need to work with instead of public opinion or matter or even energy. It's meaning that we need to coax into our lives. Number one, as meaning enters our lives individually, we become more capable of raising our voices both in joyous song and in political protest, if necessary. My whole shtick, and the whole shtick of the psychedelic experience, I think, is reclaim immediate experience. Realize that you outvote all parliaments, police forces, and major newspapers on the planet because, who knows, they may be illusions. Complicated phenomenological forms of analysis can be carried out to show that their existence is in considerable doubt. But if you carry out this phenomenological reduction, you will discover that it reinforces the notion that you must actually exist and be real. So therefore, you start from that. That nub of immediate experience and real being and extrapolation outward should be very provisional. I mean, I don't know how Buddhism handles this. I grant you all a strong possibility of existing, but I'm not nearly as sure about you as I am about me. And I don't think any of you should be more sure of the rest of us than yourself. I mean, the world could be anything. It could be a solid-state matrix of some sort. It could be an illusion. It could be a dream. I mean, it really could be a dream. So it pays to stay on your toes, I think. In practical terms, what does all this come down to besides that we should speak from the heart clearly and with our minds engaged? Well, I think that... Remember I said we should see language as the stuff with which we work rather than matter. And that means creating a technology of the sayable, making the complete understanding of new puns a national priority on a par with weapons development. It means exploring the real implications of substituting Finnegan's Wake for the Constitution, this sort of thing. Because what we're doing, you see, is pulling the beard of the linear printheads who really believe all of this stuff, who really are lost in the labyrinth of the political errors of the last 500 years. We can't overwhelm them by force of arms, nor should we wish to. They can actually be teased out of existence because they themselves feel their position to be so ridiculous. It's very interesting how the way the collapse of our enemy in the Soviet Union has exposed the absurdity of our previous positions. All our previous positions are now exposed as absurd. People don't draw the obvious conclusion. It must also mean then that our present position is absurd. And so it's tremendously liberating. Our culture is ruined. It's a disgrace from which we can now simply walk away. Well, then the question is, into what? And I believe that our persistent fascination with psychedelic states of mind since prehistory forward has been because in the psychedelic state, from the very beginning, there was an anticipation of the very end. And the very end still lies ahead of us. What it is is that our nervous system is in the process of evolving us through a linguistic transformation where language, which at the beginning of the process was something that you heard, at the end of the process becomes something that you actually see. And this simple shift from seeing to hearing is the key to our being able to finally recognize each other and communicate. Print and linearity and what's called ear bias for language is what has shattered our sense of ourselves as a collectivity. A positive way of putting it is to say it's also what created the idea of democracy, individual freedom, labor unions, the vote, all of these atomized notions of human obligation and political participation arise out of print. But so do ideas like that we're all alike because letters from printing presses on pages are all alike. The idea that products should be mass produced out of mass produced subunits.
 This is a printhead notion. It could never have occurred to anyone outside of a printing press culture, and never has. These ideas have imparted to our existence a tremendous material opulence and intellectual poverty and spiritual uniformity. And now, literally, we have to illuminate our civilization. We have to take its shoddy, spiritually-empty Bauhaus skeleton and illuminate it, psychedelicize it, let a thousand Paisleys bloom. In other words, release the design process from a commitment to material values. Well, how can you do that? Because the bottom line of material values is the bottom line. It costs. The reason we build in the Bauhaus style, for whatever reason we got into it, we now build in that style because it's the cheapest around. And once you start adding filigrees and changing things, costs soar. How can you do that in a civilization with a cult of democratic values, individualism, and print-created linear uniformity? Well, the only way you can do it is you have to drop design costs to zero. The only way you can do that is if you build virtually. This means you build in an electronic dimension that is added on to ordinary cultural space like an orthogonal dimension. In other words, it's like a TV that you walk into. It's called cyberspace. And in cyberspace, things are built out of light. So it costs as much to build Versailles as it costs to build a hamburger stand. Because Versailles and the hamburger stand are just two programs that look exactly the same on disk. So what this means is that the previous set of class-created values, based on the acquisition and control of matter, begin to break down. This is already happening in America on one level, where to live as a middle-class person is to live on a better level than the Mughal emperors ever dreamed of. I mean, what Mughal emperor could stride to his refrigerator and see cases of French mineral water, juices from the South Seas, pomegranates from South America? Eat your heart out, Mughal deli. No chance. So in a sense, we're beginning to create this leveling, but we have created it by looting the material resources of the rest of the world. Conceivably, it can be created in a virtual space, where we would all live in this world, a rather monkish existence. But, you know, there's that wonderful passage in Finnegan's Wake where he says, he's speaking of the red-light district of Dublin, which is called Moy Cane, and he says, Here in Moy Cane we flop on the seamy side, but up Nayent, prospector, you sprout all your worth and you woof your wings. If you want to be phoenixed, come and be parked. Well, he was advocating death as a solution to life's problems. If you want to be phoenixed, come and be parked. My solution is not so radical. I think if you want to be phoenixed, come and be parked at your local virtual reality arcade, and then you can be phoenixed in several ways. Some of what I'm saying here is facetious. We talked last night about Stan Tenen's wonderful object. For those of you who weren't here, this is a man, a Kabbalistic scholar, who has developed a piece of sculpture such that when you illuminate it from a certain angle, the Hebrew letter Aleph appears as a shadow. And then you move the light slightly, and Aleph turns into Bet. And then you move the light slightly, and so on. In order, his sculpture produces all of the Hebrew letters as shadows from this beautiful form, which he calls the lily. It ties in with an experience that I had. First, let me talk a little bit more about this lily thing that Tenen has discovered. He also made one for Demotic Greek, which for those of us who thought it was proof positive that Hebrew was the language of God, this was a real blow to the chest. But because he did one for Demotic Greek, too, and it works just as well, implying, and he's working on Arabic, implying that perhaps such forms exist for all alphabets. And so then I was thinking about this last night, and I said, well, if there's a sculpture in three dimensions that throws the two-dimensional alphabets, then obviously in a higher dimension there must be a form which throws into lower dimensions the sculptures that make the alphabet. So that means all alphabets, all letters, lead back to a hyperdimensional surface of some sort, which can probably then be described with some kind of weird fractal algorithm. And so then I thought, wow, this is a pretty Hebraic vision of what's going on here. We have the alphabets of local languages being generated from higher-dimensional objects that are three-dimensional that are then referent to still higher-dimensional objects through which the light of God's love passes, scattering out into the radiance of what can be said. And in a way, this is sort of my vision of the millennium, that we will be resorbed into the Word. You know, the whole story begins in Principio ad Verbum et Verbo caro factum est, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was made flesh. The whole cosmic drama is the mystery of what it is for the Word to be made flesh. Language is seeking to birth itself into the domain of concrete existence. That's obviously what the Word made flesh means. And it seems to me that if the Word can be made flesh, this implies a reciprocity. It implies that the flesh can be made Word. And this brings us back to what I was talking about at the very beginning this evening, which is the curiously literary nature of reality. That it's much more like a novel by Thomas Pynchon than it is like an equation by Ilya Prigozhin. And why is that? Is it because, in fact, the flesh is Word? And that understanding this is the real task of uncovering our spirituality. Somehow it's a riddle, it's a conundrum, it's a koan. If we could correctly understand this, if the world did not disappear immediately, at least it would roll around in the palm of your hand like a spinning marble, as the I Ching promises. It's something about the recognition of the primacy of the Word, that history is the process of the descent of the Word into concrete expression. I didn't say matter. And that our relation to this retroflexive process is an ascent into the Word, a going toward the approaching mystery, and a meeting there in a domain of unknowability. Essentially, I mean, this is the casting into being that Heidegger talked about. This is the going to meet the stranger. This is the flight of the alone to the alone that is the driving force of Plotinus' mysticism. Well, that's really all I have to say about that, so let me see what time... How am I doing? Question and answer. Yeah, let's take some questions if there are any. Do you know how to use Amenides muscaria medicinally and shamanistically without killing yourself? I can tell you we're following my argument with bated breath. Carefully, because it's dangerous. It's dangerous because it's seasonally variable, geographically variable, and genetically variable, and that's enough variables that you should be very careful with what you're doing. Generally, I don't recommend it. The attention that has been given to that mushroom is, to my mind, entirely out of proportion to its cultural importance.
 This is because Gordon Watson fastened in on it with a tenacious will as Soma. He decided that it was Soma. Are you all up to speed on what we're talking about here? Soma was this mysterious, ecstatic, hallucinogenic plant that the Rig Vedas were basically composed about. The major subject of the Rig Vedas is Soma. The ninth mandala of the Rig Veda is a paean of praise to Soma that it exalts it above all the other gods. And no one knows what Soma was. The descriptions are puzzling. It seems to have been... It didn't have leaves. It had yellow flowers. It grew in mountains. They speak of pressing it. It was prepared some way. It was pressed. It was filtered. And then they talk about this golden liquid which they drank. And Gordon Watson, because of the importance of the Indo-Aryan people who wrote the Vedas for connecting up all of the history of what archaeologists call Old Europe with the Neolithic Middle East and India, it was very important to try and understand what Soma was. But the problem that has bedeviled everyone who was an enthusiast for Amanita Muscaria as Soma is that it's a bad trip. It is not reliably an ecstatic intoxicant. In fact, it's fairly reliably a bellyache. And people have pounded it with milk curd. There was a whole school of thought which said that the enzymes active in raw milk would decarboxylate muscarine, the poison, into muscamole, the hallucinogen. But, you know, this didn't stand the test of human trials. It didn't appear to be true. Then other people said you have to dry them for months or smoke them over a fire. Again, this doesn't seem to be reliable. So Wasson went to the grave. In his last book, Persephone's Quest, he referred to Amanita Muscaria as the supreme entheogen of all time, which was just a completely wrong-headed judgment, I believe. And this was from the man who discovered the true psilocybin mushroom cult in Mexico. There was an angle on all this which Wasson completely overlooked because of his bias towards certain languages. And that is that along with all this Indo-European Vedic Hindu material, there was a Zendevestan literature based around halma, the same stuff, same word. And from there, Flattery argues that it was Pagamin Harmala, that it was harmaline, that it was not a mushroom, that it was a higher plant in the Zygophilaceae. And I think probably he's right, actually. It's a very interesting book. Apparently, in the Avestan classical period, no one would have dreamed of having a spiritual experience without resort to drugs. They just put it very plainly. They're the most matter-of-fact people. These texts are fascinating. But they don't devalue it. They say, you know, here's our map of the spirit world entirely based on our drug experiences. And here are the drugs we use. And to see these angels, you must use this drug. And to see these angels, this drug. And so forth. We don't really know what these drugs were because the etymologies are lost. But harmaline figures very strongly in all of this. And of course, harmaline is a neurotransmitter present in human metabolism. In fact, I didn't get into it tonight because I was trying to keep it off the biochemistry and that sort of thing. But this transformation of language from something heard to seen that I was talking about, I believe is a one or two gene mutation. That's all it would take. Because in the human pineal gland, there is a compound called adenoglomerotropine. That's what the enzymologists call it. But when you show it to a plant biochemist, he says it's 6-methoxytetrahydroharmaline. And so it is. Adenoglomerotropine and 6-methoxytetrahydroharmaline are the same thing. Well, it's a psychedelic harmine alkaloid similar to what's in pergamon harmala. It could be converted to DMT by a simple methylation. Well, a one gene mutation would make a methylation possible. Attention, consciousness, cultural values. We don't know how many times since the invention of language there have been significant mutations in the chemistry of the nervous system that have created significant changes in cultural programming. I mean, doesn't anyone find it a little odd that the laws of perspective were discovered less than 400 years ago? I mean, what the hell was wrong with people before that? How can you discover the laws of perspective? I mean, I find that not credible for somebody to say that the laws of perspective were discovered. It's always seemed weird to me. It's as though there was a shift, a very subtle tweaking of the processing of visual space itself necessary to be able to do that. You've spoken about the Word and the Word made flesh. Dorothy Sayers wrote a book called The Mind of the Maker in which she discusses the Trinity as really an image of what the creative process is all about. The father is having a great idea for a play. There's the father. The son is making a thing happen on stage, bringing it into the world and having it made flesh. And then the spirit is the response that you have to that completed product and how all three of them really beget one another and they nurture one another. And she talks about people who have these problems with scalene trinities where there's someone who, let's say, may have only the father, only have a great idea, but be unable to make it into something that's physically real on a stage. And I wonder if you could pick that up. Yeah, I mean, speaking to it generally, I think if you think of history as this kind of a process, Western history as the manifestation of the Dema Urgos, Ildabawa, Jehovah, and then you get this middle declension in the Christos and then this peculiar and misunderstood promise of the redemption by the Holy Ghost, McLuhan, who's a very interesting figure as a radical thinker in communications theory and a devout Catholic, believed that the manifestation of the Holy Ghost was electricity. And to him, the ringing of the planet by electronic media was the unfolding arms of an archangel. I mean, he literally saw electricity as God's love made manifest. And he hasn't been proven wrong yet. I mean, it may yet knit us all together and make us one and lift us off and send us to the stars. It's a wonderful stuff, electricity. I like to talk about it because for thousands of years, electricity was this stuff which some people knew about and what they knew was that you skinned a cat and you dried its skin in the wind and then you got an amber rod, a polished rod of amber, and then you would go into a dark room with your cat skin and your amber rod and you would rub it back and forth like this and then you would pull the amber rod away from the fur and you would see miniature lightning storms of static electricity. And that was it. For thousands of years, that was it. And then in the 17th century, make it the 18th century, people invented what were called Leiden jars, which were this tricky way of storing this stuff so that you could store up a lot of it and then in a dark room you could discharge it across a gap with this snap.
 I mean, you talk about a shamanic invocation, from that we light cities, we smelt steel, we sink shafts miles into the earth. And it's just this little elemental that we were able to coax into becoming our friend. Well, who knows how much of this sort of thing there is. According to McLuhan, that's the major thing. And the electrification of the body, this is a theme you get as early as Whitman, I sing the body electric. You get it in Stephen Vincent Benet, in his poem John Brown's Body, where he says, I see the human body, cold electric rage, and he pictures it as a superstructure. Electricity as information, as the logos, as the freeing and rarefaction of thought, it's credible. I mean, when you think about electricity, in and of itself, as modern inventions go, it must be the most benign there is, because other than seating criminals in electric wired chairs, it is not a weapon of mass destruction. You cannot rain it down on your enemy's cities. It's pure energy in the service of light, one thing, and information. And it's generated, I don't know how many of you know this, but it's generated out of stable magnetic fields. I mean, when we were in the fifth grade, we made engines by wrapping nails with wires and setting them delicately balanced between permanent magnets. And, you know, you coax this stuff into being. We take it for granted because we don't understand it. But if you're down close to where it's coming into being, it's like coaxing some kind of demon out of the matrix and into the service of thought and light. Very psychedelic. So how do you see the body being coaxed back into the word? Well, I don't know. It's a hard thing to picture, isn't it? Well, maybe it's like those Tibetan letters that start becoming real and vibrating. Well, there are a number of, I think we have like pieces of the puzzle, but we don't know quite how to arrange them. One is virtual reality. Do you all understand this concept? Because I mention it and it's quickly becoming central to my references. Virtual reality is this technology now being developed where they give you a helmet and a body glove, and when you look in the helmet, you see another world. And you're in it. And you can walk around and pick things up and open doors, and it's all sustained by computers. But the illusion is very real, and they're only at the beginning of the process of creating this illusion. So that's a technology sitting off there with a potential application. Another is nanotechnology. Nanotechnology is making things very small. There's a whole enthusiasm for this. And people who, you know, I talked yesterday about being down at the baths and watching the stratocumulus clouds move over the ocean. The number of water droplets in a stratocumulus cloud exceeds the number of people in the world. Therefore, if we were the size of water droplets, we could simply exist in that kind of a cloudscape. Well then, okay, so that's another technology that's sitting there. Another is this wonderful fantasy that I told some of you about a few days ago, where we see a man walking on a beach. And the man, his planet is perfect. Its oceans and its atmosphere and its glaciers and its equatorial forests are all in balance. And this man is naked, except for a thread, like a Hindu thread that crosses him. And on this thread, there's sufficient space for as much as a thousand or more small beads. Each bead is a doorway into a technological potentiality that is entirely suppressed in three-dimensional space. In three-dimensional space, there is just man and nature. But when this man closes his eyes, there are menus. And these menus lead to other menus. In other words, the culture, the entire culture has become virtual. This is one possibility, that the culture be made virtual. Another possibility, which is sort of the reverse of that, and there's a company on the peninsula trying to do this, is to place a textual reality behind apparent reality. So that everything is a button, you know? It is what it is, but it's also a button. So I look at this, the question forms in my mind, what is this? The what pushes a button. And textual accompaniment informs me that this is cypress wood, cut three years ago. Do you see what this would do to the world? Now we're well on our way in the project of making the word flesh, and the flesh word. We at least have them lined up with the word behind the flesh, and in some cases the flesh behind the word. Embedded. Embedded. Ontologically arranged in a situation of mutual reinforcement. Okay, another technology is some kind of severing from the physical connection. And then there's a lot of debate about, is this possible? The old consciousness without an object, riffraff. Well, it has to be explored. It can't be known. The other thing is, the persistence of the intuition of non-material worlds inhabited by self-organizing intellecties of one sort or another seems to imply that some kind of dematerialization is at least theoretically possible. I've talked a lot in these circles about the questions raised by the ecstasis that comes with DMT, where you actually break into a world where there are what I call autonomous self-transforming machine elves. But what we have discussed in terms of are these the sprites of classical European mythology? Are they dwellers in some parallel continuum unsuspected by any of our sciences or ontologies? And then, a still more unsettling possibility, is this somehow an ecology of souls? Is the eerie connectedness to the human dimension that these things have because, in fact, this is a stage of some sort in human existence? If what God can bring tangential to history means is human beings unraveling the mystery of physical death, then I think that would be a sufficient fulfillment of the sort of dramatological demands of a denouement that we stride toward the mystery, the mystery strides towards us, and everything is resolved in a revelation of the understanding and meaning of death. This kind of thing makes me very uncomfortable, perhaps because it's fairly feeling-toned and emotion-laden. It doesn't trouble me to imagine contacting informational beings in a parallel continuum, but the notion of encountering an ecology of souls I think is hair-raising, if you take it seriously, because even the most spiritual of us are so deeply programmed by the assumptions of scientific materialism that I think something like that on the short term here and now really gives us pause. Brother David. In this process of breaking through to the world in flesh, where do you see the function of the poets? Well, you know, people have talked, Robert Graves and others, about what he called an ursprach, an original speech, and Celtic poetics somewhat assumes this.
 I think this language that is seen is a project that the poets should take very seriously. We need to not simply make better poetry, we need to make poetry of an entirely different order. And we will recognize it when we see it, not when we hear it. It will not be heard, it will be seen. To carry language from two dimensions into three is the task of the poet and the rebel in the 20th century. And there is a model for this which I will explain to you so that it doesn't seem so outlandish. And so we can see that nature once again has sanctioned this move. And that is, a long time ago, 700 million years ago, more or less, the great tree of life made a primary division between the vertebrates, the creatures with backbones, and the invertebrates. Evolving along the invertebrate line and reaching the greatest brain size and complexity of nervous system on the invertebrate side of things were the cephalopods. These are the squids and the benthic octopi, the eight-armed ones and the ten-armed ones. You may not realize it, but they are actually mollusks related to Escargot. So they are an extremely primitive creature from the point of view of those of us with backbones and binocular vision and frontal lobes and so forth and so on. Nevertheless, the interesting thing about benthic octopi is that they can change their color over a wide range. Now you may have heard this fact and assumed that it had to do with camouflage against their surroundings so that they can avoid predators. This is not what it's about at all. Octopi change color and they can also change the shape of their skin from smooth to rugose and wrinkled and then what's called pileate, little points all over it. They can go through all these color changes and texture changes. And octopi have extremely well-evolved eyes. In fact, evolutionary biologists always compare the eyes of octopi to human eyes as an example of what is called parallel non-convergent evolution because clearly the two are not related, but the argument is made, you see they solve the problem the same way in two different places. So it's a very neat example of convergent evolution. But what is interesting for our discussion is the mode of communication of these things. They become their linguistic intent. This repertoire of blushes, dots, stripes, traveling fields, color changes, and then because they are soft-bodied, they can quickly reveal and conceal all parts of their body very quickly. So if you watch an octopus in communication, its surface texture is changing, its color is changing, and it is hiding and revealing. It's dancing, and it's a dance of pure meaning, perceived visually by the object of its intention, which is other octopi. So compare this for a moment to our method of communication. We use rapidly modulated small mouth noises. As primates, we have an incredible ability to make small mouth noises. We can do this for up to six hours at a stretch without tiring. No other thing that we can do approaches the level of variation with low energy investment that the small mouth noises do. A person using a deaf and dumb language is exhausted after 45 minutes. But the problem with the small mouth noises form of communication is I have a thought. I look in a dictionary that I have created out of my life experience. I map the thought onto the dictionary. I make the requisite small mouth noises. They cross physical space. They enter your ear. You look in your dictionary, which is different from my dictionary. But if we speak what we call the same language, it will be close enough that you will sort of understand what I mean. Now, if I don't say to you, what do I mean, you and I will go gaily off in the assumption that we understand each other. But if I say to you, did you understand what I said then? You say, yes, you meant that you don't want to sit with Harry and Sally because their pending divorce makes you uncomfortable. I say, no, that's not what I meant. I meant, so there's misunderstanding because the dictionaries are not matched. Now, notice what's happening with the octopi. There is no dictionary. Both parties are seeing the same thing because my body is my meaning. I become my meaning and you behold the meaning I have become. I am like a naked thought. Not even a naked nervous system, more naked than that. I am like a naked thought in aqueous space unfolding in time. I maintain this is why octopi eject clouds of ink. It's so they can have private thoughts. Because if you can be seen, you can be understood. Well, this is a perfect model condoned by nature for the kind of transformation that we want to lead our culture toward. And I don't think it's that outlandish. Our previous animal totems were chosen unconsciously and were rather unfortunate, I think. I take the totem of the 19th century to be the horse, expressed as the steam engine. And the totemic animal of the 20th century is the raptor, the bird of prey, expressed as supersonic high-performance fighter aircraft, which is just the leanest, meanest machine you can get together these days. But these mammalian and avian images are too close to the rapacious heart of the primate inside us. Embracing an image of the soul like that of the octopi is a permission for a strange and alien kind of beauty to be led into our lives. And these things are strange and alien, let me tell you. The situation I described with these octopi was coastal, shallow water octopi, so-called circoliteral octopi. But they have also evolved into the depths, the so-called abyssal octopi that exist below 1,500 meters in the sea where there is absolute darkness. And to carry their intention to communicate into that darkness over the past 700 million years, they have evolved phosphorescent organs and have covered themselves with lights, with eyelid-like membranes that can be rapidly blinked and flickered so that when you descend into the abyss, you then see pure linguistic intentionality among the cephalopoidea because they have become what we aim to become under the wise leadership and stewardship of George Bush, namely, a thousand points of light. Is this guy for real? Was it a WH Auden line? Was it Flanders Fields? Armies clash by night and that whole business? Are they only beholding one another, or is there maybe a mechanism at work, like when yawning is contagious, that it's not only watching, but actually what happens to your body is transmitted to mine? Well, this is fascinating stuff to study. The biologists who are studying these things are actually creating a grammar and a syntax, and they are beginning to understand what certain things mean and the level of meaning. There's a wonderful book called Communication and Non-Communication Among the Cephalopoides.
 point that communication is a very double-edged thing. You want to communicate to somebody, but usually it's also important that your message not be picked up by other somebodies. So there can't be just a full-on drive toward apprehendability. There also is a countervailing force toward concealment, obscurantism, double entendre, so forth. Someone said language was invented to lie. In a way, that's true, because of the problem of non-communication. As soon as you have something to communicate, there are places you don't want the message to go, and so this creates a very interesting problem. If I were 20 years old, I'd go back into marine biology just to spend time with these things. They're quite amazing, and they have very large brain capacity. I think John Lilly was all mixed up to look for mind in the water, that it was mammalian chauvinism that drove them to dolphins and whales, that maybe they are intelligent, but the language feats, when you see videotape of these cephalopods, you realize you're in the presence of an opera. What kinds of things are they communicating, besides maybe fear or... Well, they have elaborate sexual displays, and it's a very tricky thing, sexuality among cephalopods, because the male usually doesn't survive the encounter, so a lot of time is spent getting it right before you commit yourself, so they have a very complicated courtship thing, and one of the things that's always said about them is that every child's book will tell you this about octopi, they're shy creatures. Well, guess why? It's because they wear their heart on their sleeve, everywhere they go, other octopi can tell exactly what they're thinking and feeling, so they live alone, and they only get together on special occasions for communication, basically, and the repertoire is as complex as human language, so that they could be discussing the equivalent of Spencer's epithelium or something, I mean, we don't know what they're talking about. Do we have a sort of Rosetta Stone? We have a primitive grammar, but it's only for one species, and I'm not really interested in what they're saying, because I think it would only make sense if you were an octopus, but I'll bet that... You see, it's a model for us, wouldn't we like to dance for each other and be perfectly understood, and wouldn't we like to see someone dance and to know that this was their mind and their body, somehow, at one? In a way, God, does everything go back to everything? In a way, this is the theme of Skinny Legs and All, this is the theme of the Dance of the Seven Veils, octopi do it, nubile Hebrew princesses do it, everybody dances toward the truth, dropping veils as they go, and then, of course, the nakedness of truth is a clich. Well, you mentioned, to bring it to a practical level in my life, you mentioned the hallucinogenic experiences being one way that... I don't think I accelerate anything in my life, I feel that I just align with and move in a freer way, so I wouldn't seek out a hallucinogenic experience in order to accelerate or to get more transformative, I do it because it's enjoyable, it's truly exciting and passionate and I do seem to transform in the process and grow. Are there any ways, or other ways that you might suggest, and also, I'm interested in sound, which is, you're talking about going from sound to light, and I have a way of starting where I am, or again, following my excitement, which happens to be in making tones, and I've reproduced experiences such as, very simply, like a hot tub, where I make a tone and another person has an experience of being in a hot tub, they go from being cold to being very comfortable, very vulnerable, very open, very loving, and it occurred to me that I could reproduce a mushroom experience, or some of these drugs you mentioned that are in the Amazon. That you could reproduce it with sound? I could make tones, such as in Tibet, they can, you know, tones can bring physical objects into being, and move energy and such, and that's my exploration, but I was wondering if you had any ideas of, well, something sort of along that line, that I've worked with for years, and observed for years, and I find very interesting, is, you know, in South America there is this drug, plant drug, of shamanic tradition of great age, called ayahuasca, or yah, and what seems, it's chemically a little different from anything we've discussed, and consequently neurologically a little different. When it was, when this drug was first discovered in the twenties, they called, they isolated a white crystal from it, and they named it telepathine, because they believed that these deep forest Indians were having some kind of state of group mindedness behind this. Well then, and that was all very exciting, that there was a drug called telepathine, but then later they found out that the drug had already been discovered in another plant in Pergamon Harmala, the Soma plant I mentioned, and had been named Harmine, so that the rules of nomenclature, that took precedent, but persistently, since then, there had been reports of group states of mind caused by this drug. So we explored this in the seventies, fairly thoroughly, in seventy-one, in seventy-two, again in seventy-six, and again in eighty-one, and different things are going on. First of all, the people down there, who take this drug, are into what they call Icaros. Icaros are magical songs, I-C-A-R-O-S, Icaro, and the accomplishment of a shaman is judged by how many of these magical songs he has, and they're taught to you by the spirits, they say. The interesting thing is, is that the Icaro, within the culture, is criticized as a work of visual art, it is not thought of as a song, it is not listened to, it is looked at, and when people criticize it, they criticize its form and its color, and in taking this drug, we discovered that there is something about it, it seems to dissolve a cultural barrier between the synesthesia of sound and light, so that you can make a tone, like mmmmm, and it emerges as a streak of cyan blue, that just stands there in space, as long as you, clearly, this stripe is related to the sound, when you stop the sound, the stripe disappears, well then you discover that when you modulate the sound, the color is modulated, well then you begin breaking it up, and you discover that voice has become transformed into an instrument for manipulating light, and again, it has to do with these drugs, which are very close to neurotransmitters, just one gene away from being naturally produced, it's as though this is the biochemical place where what we experience as the evolution of language and our abilities, our cognitive abilities to integrate and express language are happening, so that, you know, I think this should be looked at, I think maybe the path to the kind of visually beheld form of communication that I'm talking about is to look at shamanic cultures, where this may have been happening all along, and people assume it. It is true, when you go up these jungle rivers to the really bare-assed people, that the elders do get together and take this stuff, and they do have a collective, complex collective image of what should be done for the good of the group. It's not exactly a vision of the future, it's more complicated than that.
 that, because they also have a vision, a three-dimensional vision of the kinship structure of the village, of a whole bunch of clan and sib group associations to plants and animals in the forest which are hidden from the eyes of the casual visitor. They are, it isn't that so much that they predict the future as that they go into a higher dimension of their own cultural information space and from there they make decisions. Where should we hunt? Who should we make war on or not make war on? Where should we move? And even decisions about triage of children and this sort of thing, because this does go on. So how much of human navigation through history has been done by processing ordinary cultural information on a higher dimensional level by perturbing neurological functioning? I mean, if there is any angle that would have given us an edge, we would have found it and we would have used it. And I've discussed in other lectures the way in which small doses of psilocybin improve vision and how this would have fed back into a primitive hunter-gatherer system. Very simply, they would have just outbred everybody not using mushrooms because a pair of chemical binoculars in a hunting environment is an adaptive advantage that could not be ignored and so forth and so on. By copying your hand movements, it helps me see what you're talking about like in a virtual reality and that's what they do in neuro-linguistic programming and the people who made fire-walking popular like Tony Robbins in this country were neuro-linguistic programmers. Maybe neuro-linguistic programmers could study octopi. If I had eight hands, I could really get gestural. A funny experience involving octopi, I know a woman, I'm sure she would not begrudge me this description of her. She is a very frank exhibitionist. This is the woman who at every party takes her clothes off and dances on the tabletops and so forth. She is an inveterate exhibitionist. She's totally frank about it. I had been to the Monterey Aquarium and seen the octopus there. They have a giant octopus. Most of the time, this guy just hunkers low and he's sort of off in a corner, one beady eye checking you out. Of course, because octopi have this mode of communication, they're very set up to respond to visual display. This woman walked past this tank and this octopus practically leaped into the air. It came down out of the tunnel. It was pressing against the glass. It was beating against the glass. What it was, was one exhibitionist recognizing another. It was just clear across the species lines. The power of neurosis knows no barrier. She also had all this orange hair, very red right here that the sunlight had hit. That's true. It was probably sending a message to this octopus that was obscene in the very least. Was she dancing? No. She was just trying to be unobtrusive, but this woman being unobtrusive is a show-stopper. Terrence, when you talk about language, or the word you said, people talk, to me you left out the whole body language. When you go into print, I'm making all these unconscious assumptions of values of what you're saying is true, partly based on your body language. True. But body language has really faded for us, probably because of the telephone. I mean, the telephone really staunches that. Yes, we probably were much more linguistically rich in the past. We've muted ourselves. I think I can understand you better by watching your hand. Terrence, just to let you know what happens when you discover sparks nowadays. When I was a kid, I was a science buff, and I made a Tesla coil, and so on. Before that, I accidentally induced a spark in a transformer. Unexpectedly, the spark jumped, and it was sort of my first religious experience. I saw this spark, and all sorts of things burst loose in my ten-year-old head. Two years later, the FCC triangulated my house for emitting spurious radiations, because you have to regulate all that sort of thing. I felt sort of like someone put a big pot lid over my head. Between that and being suckered in by the Moody Bible Institute with their big Tesla coil movie, it just left a bad taste in my mouth. I'm glad we're on to other things now besides sparks and amber. Oh, okay. They're a bitter experience. There is a notion, you know, in Latin, spark is scintilla. This word exists only in English in the legal phrase, there was not a scintilla of evidence against him. But in alchemy, this idea lived on for a long, long time. There's a whole literature of causing the scintilla and seeing it like you did. So you were unconsciously caught up in an alchemical archetype. Well, why don't we knock off? I think that's enough for this evening.